WATER SUPPLY
  Fifth Edition
This Page Intentionally Left Blank
   WATER SUPPLY
               Fifth Edition

               Alan C. Twort
                 BSc, FICE, FCIWEM

         Don D. Ratnayaka
         BSc, DIC, MSc, FIChem E, FClWEM

         Malcolm J. Brandt
                BSc, MICE, MCIWEM




         L~E      1 N     E    M     A   N   N



                        Publishing


               BINNIE BLACK & VEATCH
OXFORD AMSTERDAM BOSTON LONDON NEW YORK PARIS
 SAN DIEGO SAN FRANCISCO SINGAPORE SYDNEY TOKYO
Butterworth-Heinemann is an imprint of Elsevier
Linacre House, Jordan Hill, Oxford OX2 8DP, UK
30 Corporate Drive, Suite 400, Burlington, MA 01803, USA
First edition published by Arnold 1963
Second edition published by Arnold 1974
Third edition published by Arnold 1985
Fourth edition published by Arnold 1994
Fifth edition published by Arnold 2000
Reprinted by Butterworth-Heinemann 2001, 2002, 2006
Co-published by IWA Publishing
Alliance House, 12 Caxton Street, London, SW 1H 0QS
Tel: +44 (0)20 7654 5500; e-mail: publications@iwap.co.uk;
website: www.iwap.co.uk
Copyright 9 2000, A. C. Twort, D. D. Ratnayaka and M. J. Brandt.
Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved
The right ofA. C. Twort, D. D. Ratnayaka and M. J. Brandt to be identified
as the authors of this work has been asserted in accordance with the Copyright,
Designs and Patents Act 1988
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system
or transmitted in any form or by any means electronic, mechanical, photocopying,
recording or otherwise without the prior written permission of the publisher
Permissions may be sought directly from Elsevier's Science & Technology Rights
Department in Oxford, UK: phone: (+44) (0) 1865 843830; fax: (+44) (0)1865 853333;
email: permissions@elsevier.com. Alternatively you can submit your request online by
 isiting the Elsevier web site at http://elsevier.com/locate/permissions, and selecting
Obtaining permission to use Elsevier material

Notice
No responsibility is assumed by the publisher for any injury and/or damage to persons
or property as a matter of products liability, negligence or otherwise, or from any use
or operation of any methods, products, instructions or ideas contained in the material
herein. Because of rapid advances in the medical sciences, in particular, independent
verification of diagnoses and drug dosages should be made
British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data
A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
A catalog record for this book is available from the Library of Congress
ISBN-13:978-0-340-72018-9
ISBN--10:0-340-72018-2

 For information on all Butterworth-Heinemann publications
 visit our website at books.elsevier.corn


Printed and bound in Great Britain

06 07 08 09 10 10 9 8 7 6 5 4

        Working together to grow
     libraries in developing countries
   www.elsevier.com I www.bookaid.org I www.sabre.org
    -:LSEVIER       BOOK     AID
                    ~n,......~o~   Sabre   F o u n d a t l o"l
                                  Contents




     Preface                                                                                        ix
     Contributing authors, reviewers and advisors                                                   xi
     Abbreviations used in bibliographies                                                          xiii
     Public water supply requirement and its measurement                                             1
     Consumption c a t e g o r i e s - difficulties of measuring household consump-
     tion - components of domestic demand - fittings usage - standpipe
     demand -industrial, commercial and agricultural demand - supply meter
     accuracies - amount of leakage and wastage - distribution losses - price
     elasticity of d e m a n d - growth t r e n d s - demand constraint measures- peak
     consumption rates.
,
     The organisation and financing of public water supplies.                                      36
     Control of public supplies - privatisation in U K - role of Director General of
     Water Services - the UK Environment A g e n c y - pollution control measures
     - public water supplies in U S A - functions of U S E P A - private sector
     participation- organisation and staffing of u n d e r t a k i n g s - charging for
     w a t e r - financing of capital works - depreciation and asset managment -
     short- and long-term marginal costing - UK water prices.
11   Hydrology and surface supplies
     Part I - Hydrological considerations.                                                         63
     Catchment a r e a s - streamflow and rainfall measurement- evaporation and
     transpiration - soil moisture m e a s u r e m e n t - catchment l o s s e s - stream-
     flow naturalisation - minimum and maximum rainfalls and runoffs - flood
     estimation methods.
     Part I I - Yield of surface sources.                                                          87
     Definitions of ' y i e l d ' - aspects of yield failure r i s k - river intake yields - use
     of probability p a p e r - direct supply impounding reservoir . y i e l d s - yield
     failure risk by probability m e t h o d s - pumped storage yields - producing
     design drought daily flows - regulating reservoir yield - catchwater yields -
     conjunctive use and operating rules - computer modelling - rainwater
     collecting systems.
vi        Contents


 11        Groundwater supplies                                                                                114
           Aquifer sources - yield uncertainties - potential yield of an a q u i f e r -
           assessing aquifer characteristics- recharge a s s e s s m e n t - use of Jacob's
           equation - groundwater modelling - test pumping - geophysical and other
           investigation m e t h o d s - borehole linings and gravel packs - borehole
           construction and d e v e l o p m e n t - pollution prevention- artificial r e c h a r g e -
           island water supplies - collector wells - borehole and well layouts.
 |         Dams, impounding reservoirs and river intakes                                                       152
           Essential reservoir c o n d i t i o n s - historic dam failures- design of overflow
           and outlet w o r k s - estimating probable maximum f l o o d - spillway flood
           r o u t i n g - drawoff a r r a n g e m e n t s - earth dam d e s i g n - gravity dams of
           concrete and m a s o n r y - uplift p r o b l e m s - arch d a m s - buttress, rockfill and
           composite dams - seismic considerations - statutory controls - dam
           deterioration signs - reservoir sedimentation - fish passes - river intakes.

 9         Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water
           Part I - Significant chemicals and physico-chemical parameters in water                             197
           Key substances in water and water quality p a r a m e t e r s - their derivation,
           incidence and implications.
           Part I I - Water quality standards for chemical and physical parameters                             221
           WHO, EC, UK and USEAP Drinking water s t a n d a r d s - comment on their
           application - classification of raw waters - sampling frequencies - priorities
           in testing - methods to be used - UK standards for waterworks materials.
           Part I I I - Water microbiology                                                                     240
           Waterborne bacterial diseases--cholera, typhoid, dysentery, Legionnaire's
           disease - protozoal diseases - amoebic dysentery, Cryptosporidiosis,
           Giardiasis - viral diseases. Use of coliforms for testing - bacteriological
           s t a n d a r d s - tests for total and faecal c o l i f o r m s - frequency of s a m p l i n g -
           test kits - protozoai and virological examinations - nuisance organisms.
           Part I V - Water biology                                                                            254
           Range of living organisms found in natural waters - algae growth and types
           -eutrophication e f f e c t - problems created in pipelines, treatment works
           and distribution system.
           Part V - New and emerging issues.                                                                   260
           Substances and microbiological aspects subject to further evaluation, e.g.
           MTBE, perchlorate, endocrine disrupters, BSE; and aeromonas, arcobac-
           ter, enterovirulent E.Coli and other viruses.

     11    Storage, clarification and filtration of water
           Part 1 - Storage, screening, sedimentation and clarification                                        267
           Raw water s t o r a g e - screening - sedimentation and settling tanks -
           chemically assisted clarification- clarifier d e s i g n - dissolved air f l o t a t i o n -
           sludge r e m o v a l - chemical dosing equipment and l a y o u t - coagulants and
           coagulant aids.
           Part I I - Water filtration methods and sludge disposal.                                            317
           Rapid filters- design and operation- multilayer filtration- use of anthracite
           media - granular activated carbon - upward flow filtration - membrane
                                                                                            Contents    vii


          filtration - slow sand filtration - c r y p t o s p o r i d i u m oocysts and giardia cysts
          r e m o v a l - disposal of sludge from treatment works.

     11   Specialised and advanced water treatment processes                                       370
          Softening of w a t e r - demineralisation - i r o n and manganese r e m o v a l -
          arsenic, lead and aluminium r e m o v a l - defluoridation and f l u o r i d a t i o n -
          aeration methods - nitrate and ammonia removal by ion exchange,
          biological or membrane p r o c e s s e s - removal of VOC compounds by
          packed tower aerators, GAC or chemical o x i d a t i o n - taste and odour
          r e m o v a l - micropollutants r e m o v a l - advanced oxidation processes -
          corrosion causes and p r e v e n t i o n - desalination- removal of radionuclides.

el        Disinfection of water                                                               429
          Chlorine and chloramine processes of disinfection - c h l o r i n e compounds
          produced - disinfection efficiency and contact time requirements -
          production of trihaiomethanes - breakpoint and superchlorination -
          chlorine-ammonia a p p l i c a t i o n - chlorine production plant and application
          - hypochlorite production by electrolysis - chlorine dioxide use - calcium
          hypochlorite p o w d e r - disinfection by o z o n e - ozone production p l a n t -
          disinfection by UV radiation - disinfection of water mains and tanks -
          control of aftergrowth in mains.

10.       Hydraulics                                                                   463
          Energy equation of f l o w - boundary layer effect - Colebrook-White pipe
          flow formula - empirical formulae Hazen and Manning's - fittings loss -
          open channel flow critical depth of f l o w - weirs, flumes and gates - non-
          uniform f l o w - measurement weirs - measurement flumes - venturi and
          orifice meters - other flow meters.

11.       Service reservoirs                                                                 499
          Functions and capacity r e q u i r e d - economic shape and d e p t h - covering
          and protecting - structural design of jointed and monolithic r e s e r v o i r s -
          drainage and waterproofing - access and protection - p i p e w o r k - testing
          for watertightness - searching for leaks - ventilation and instrumentation
          requirements - water towers.

12.       Pumping plant: electrical, control and instrumentation systems                           522
          Types of centrifugal pumps - characteristics - specific speed - axial flow
          pumps - reciprocating pumps - electric motor drives - the AC induction
          m o t o r - starting methods - motor protection - speed control devices -
          boosting flow or pressure - plant layouts - water hammer protection -
          suction design and c a v i t a t i o n - efficiencies and fuel c o n s u m p t i o n s -
          thermodynamic monitoring of p e r f o r m a n c e - instrumentation and c o n t r o l
          systems.

13.       Pipes, pipeline construction and valves                                                559
          Types of pipes and standard setting organisations- ductile iron pipes and
          joints - steel pipes - internal and external protection - cathodic protection -
          polyethylene p i p e s - PVC p i p e s - glass reinforced plastic p i p e s - concrete
          pipes - asbestos cement pipes - choice of pipes - pipeline construction
viii   Contents


       and testing - submarine pipelines - sluice and butterfly valves- flow or
       pressure control valves - j e t  dispersers - air valve and washout
       requirements.
14.    Pipeline and distribution system design and analysis                              613
       Functional classification of pipelines - asset management requirements for
       pipelines- levels of service- economics of pumping main d e s i g n - gravity
       main design - break pressure tank - pipeline route planning - distribution
       system characteristics- design of networks and feed m a i n s - computer
       modelling of distribution system and network flows - modelling of water
       quality through distribution system.
15.    Distribution practice                                                             638
       Distribution organisation - fire demand requirements - service pipe
       materials in u s e - lead being replaced- copper, steel, PVC, polyethylene
       - supply meter types, semi-positive and inferential- domestic flow rates
       for service pipes - fittings headlosses - Regulation requirements -
       distribution system maintenance and checking p e r f o r m a n c e - mains
       cleaning, relining, replacing- leakage levels experienced- active leakage
       c o n t r o l - measurement of field flows - l e a k location and r e p a i r -
       rehabilitation of systems in disrepair with intermittent supplies.
       Conversion factors                                                                667
       Index                                                                             669
                                  Preface


A number of key specialists in the water industry have contributed to the production of
this fifth edition of Water Supply and as a result most chapters have been re-written,
extended and updated.
   The text gives up-to-date national and international standards for drinking water
quality set by the UK and EC regulatory bodies plus the World Health Organization and
the US Environmental Protection Agency. It describes the incidence and significance of
the main chemical constituents found in raw waters, and the types of bacteria, viruses and
protozoan organisms which present a hazard to human health. New matters of concern
with respect to chemical and microbiological contaminants are listed. The design is given
of treatment works and the equipment used for chemical coagulation, clarification
methods including dissolved air flotation, rapid gravity filtration, slow sand filtration and
membrane filtration. Sludge disposal methods are presented with design parameters and
tables of relevant data.
   The new 1999 UK regulations with respect to monitoring for cryptosporidium oocysts
are given, and treatment practices recommended to reduce the risk of oocysts passing into
supply are described.
   Advanced and specialised treatments are described for iron, arsenic and manganese
removal, plumbosolvency control, defluoridation and fluoridation, nitrate and ammonia
removal. Taste and odour causes and removal; and reduction of volatile organic
compounds and micropollutants by use of granular activated carbon (GAC) and advanced
oxidation processes are dealt with. Further material is added on desalination by ion
exchange, electrodialysis, reverse osmosis and thermal processes.
   The new approach to the management of distribution systems is described. Zoning of
supplies, telemetered monitoring of district flows, computer modelling of flows and water
quality modelling, together with geographic information systems are increasingly being
used to provide data on system performance, levels of service to consumers and the
condition of assets for the development of asset management plans. Methods of
rehabilitating pipelines are discussed. An extended chapter on pipes and pipelines gives
additional information on the design of steel, polyethylene and PVC pipes according to
numerous international and in-country standards.
   Material on the yield of sources has been remodelled to emphasize the important role
played by underground water supplies throughout the world. New approaches to
definitions of 'yield' are discussed; and reference is directed to the new Flood Estimation
Handbook 1999 for estimating flood magnitudes.
   Experience with privatization of the water industry in England and Wales is reported
together with a consideration of the growth of private sector participation in public water
supply overseas. Levels of staffing of waterworks undertakings in UK and other countries
x   Preface


are given. New information is presented on the water demand experienced by USA water
undertakings and the revised approach of the US Environmental Protection Agency to
drinking water quality control.
   The authors are grateful to the many contributors and reviewers who have aided the
production of this fifth edition and to the firm of Binnie, Black & Veatch who have made
this co-operative venture possible. The text also benefits from the contributions of F. M.
Law, F. W. Crowley and Dr R. C. Hoather to previous editions. However we must make
clear that responsibility for the statements and opinions expressed lies with ourselves.

                                                                         Alan C. Twort
                                                                      Don D. Ratnayaka
                                                                      Malcolm J. Brandt
                         Contributing
                            Reviewers a nd
        Authors dv sor s

Contributing authors from Binnie, Black 8 Veatch
Peter B. Clark              Technical Director (Hydraulics)
BA, MA, MSc, MICE
Tony N. Coe                 Chief Mechanical Engineer (Pumping Plant)
MA, FIMechE, FCIWEM
Neville A. Cowton           Technical Director (Service Reservoirs)
BSc, MSc, MICE, MCIWEM
Ken J. Edworthy             Consultant Hydrogeologist (Groundwater Supplies)
BSc, FGS, MCIWEM
Mike J. Little              Technical Director (Pipelines)
MA, MICE, MCIWEM
David E. MacDonald          Chief Hydrologist (Surface Supplies & Floods)
BSc, MSc, MCIWEM
John C. Maunder             Consultant, Control & Instrumentation
BSc, MIEE
                            (Control & Automation Systems)
Alvin J. Smith              Chief Biologist (Water Biology & Storage)
BSc, MIBiol, MIWEM
Peter J. Speight            Chief Electrical Engineer (Electrical Systems & Motors)
BSc, MIEE




Contributing author from Drinking Water Inspectorate
Claire R. Jackson        Principal Inspector, Drinking Water Inspectorate; formerly
MRSC, FCIWEM
                         Senior Chemist, Binnie & Partners (Water Quality
                         Issues and Standards)
xii   Contributb~gAuthors, Reviewers and Advisors


Technical reviewers and advisors
Binnie, Black 8 Veatch

John Ackers                                  Terry Heard
BSc, MICE, MCIWEM                            BSc, MRSC, MCIWEM

Roger Brown                                  Peter Mason
BSc, MSc, DIC, FICE, FCIWEM                  BSc, MPhil, PhD, FICE

Ken Harper                                   Chris Scott
BA, MICE, MCIWEM                             BSc, MSc, MICE




Others
David Drury     MIBiol, MCIWEM                                Drinking Water Inspectorate
Bob Hulsey as, MS                                             Black & Veatch
Owen Hydes OBE, BSc, MRSC                                     Drinking Water Inspectorate
Frank Law asc, MICE, FCIWEM                                   Institute of Hydrology
Jon McLean aSc,MBA, MCIM                                      Hanovia Limited
Pierre Mouchet PM,Eng.Agr.&Forestry                           Degremont
Trevor Peploe a.Tech, MRSC, MIWEM                             Paterson Candy Limited
Mark Smith asc, MRSC                                          Drinking Water Inspectorate
Neil Wade MA,FIMechE                                          Mott, Ewbank Preece
           Abbreviations
       used in bibliographies

ASCE       American Society of Civil Engineers, Reston, VA, USA
ASME       American Society of Mechanical Engineers, New York
AWWA       American Waterworks Association, Denver, USA
BHRA       British Hydromechanics Group, Cranfield, UK
CIRIA      Construction Industry Research & Information Association, London
CIWEM      Chartered Institution of Water & Evironmental Management, London
DoE        Department of the Environment,-London
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization, Rome
HMSO       Her Majesty's Stationery Office, London
IAHS       International Association of Hydrological Sciences, Wallingford, UK
ICE        Institution of Civil Engineers, London
I Chem E   Institution of Chemical Engineers, Rugby, UK
IoH        Institute of Hydrology, Wallingford, UK
IWE/IWES   Institution of Water Engineers (& Scientists), London
IWSA       International Water Supply Association, London
NEWA       New England Waterworks Association, Massachusetts, USA
NERC       Natural Environmental Research Council, Swindon, UK
OFWAT      Office of Water Services, Birmingham, UK
SWTE       Society for Water Treatment and Examination, London
USGS       United States Geological Survey, Washington, USA
WHO        World Health Organization, Geneva
WMO        World Meteorological Oganization, Geneva
WRc        Water Research Centre, Medmenham, UK
This Page Intentionally Left Blank
                                             1
               Public water supply
               requirement and its
                  measurement

1.1     Categories of consumption
It is useful to divide public water consumption into the following categories.

(1) Domestic
In-house u s e - for drinking, cooking, ablution, sanitation, house cleaning, laundry, patio
and car washing.
Out-of-house u s e - for garden watering, lawn sprinkling and bathing pools.
Standpipe u s e - from standpipes and public fountains.

(2) Trade and industrial
Industrial- for factories, industries, power stations, docks, etc.
Commercial- for shops, offices, restaurants, hotels, railway stations, airports, small trades
and workshops, etc.
Institutional- for hospitals, schools, universities, government offices, military establish-
ments, etc.

(3) Agricultural
Agricultural use is for crops, livestock, horticulture, greenhouses, dairies, farmsteads.

(4) Public
Public use is for public parks, green areas, street watering, water mains and sewer flushing,
fire-fighting.

(5) Losses
Distribution losses- leakage from mains and so, vice pipes upstream of consumers' meters
or property boundary; leaks from valves, hydrants and washouts, leakage and overflows
from service reservoirs.
Consumer wastage- leakage and wastage on consumers' premises and from their supply
pipes, misuse or unnecessary use of water by consumers.
Metering and other l o s s e s - source meter errors, supply meter errors, unauthorised or
unrecorded consumption.
2    Public water supply requirement and its measurement


   Many domestic supplies are not metered. In the UK about 14% of domestic supplies in
England and Wales were metered in 1999, but none in Scotland and Northern Ireland. A
DoE report ~ mentions that in Denmark only town houses are normally metered; in the
Netherlands about 24% of houses are unmetered; and in Germany only 30-40% of
households are individually metered, the rest being block-metered. In the USA, whilst
metering of domestic supplies is widespread, it is not universal. New York City did not
start a programme to meter all domestic supplies until 1987. This was in response to the
Delaware River Basin Commission's requirement that the major cities it supplies in the
states of Delaware, New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania, should achieve metering of
all services within a ten year period. 2 A survey by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) in
19963 showed that, of 27 Asian cities serving over 1 million people, only 15 were fully
metered and six metered less than 7% of their connections (Calcutta 0%: Karachi 1%).
   Trade and industrial supplies are usually metered because they are a major source of
income to a water undertaking. In the UK many small shops and offices occupied only in
the daytime used not to be metered, but now generally are, even though their consumption
is small. Overseas standpipe supplies are not metered and are usually given free. The city
of Bombay, for instance, supplies 400 M1/day (megalitres per day) to some 6 million
people in its slums. 4 In many countries large quantities of water are used for watering
public parks and green areas and supplying government offices and military establish-
ments, etc. They are often not metered nor paid for if the government (or state or city)
supplies the water. The result is that reported water distribution losses depend on the
accuracy with which the unmetered consumption is estimated.


1.2       Levels of total consumption
The usual measure of total consumption is the amount supplied per head of population;
but in many cases the population served is not known accurately. In large cities there may
be thousands of commuters coming in daily from outside; in holiday areas the population
may double for part of the year. Other factors having a major influence on consumption
figures are:
9     whether the available supplies and pressure are sufficient to meet the demand, 24 hour
      or intermittent;
9     the number of population using standpipes;
9     the extent to which waterborne sanitation is available;
9     the undertaking's efficiency in metering and billing, and in controlling leakage and
      wastage;
9     how much of the supply goes to relatively few large industrial consumers;
9     the climate.
Some countries, such as India, rarely have any cities with a 24-hour supply. The ADB
survey of 1996 already referred to 3 showed that 40% of 50 Asian cities surveyed did not
have a 24-hour supply, and about two-thirds had street standpipe supplies. Hence
comparison of average total consumption between undertakings is not informative. High
consumption can be caused by large industrial demand and low consumption by a
shortage of supplies. However the general range of total supplies per capita is:
 9    from 600 to 800 led (litres per capita per day) in the big industrial cities of USA;
 9    from 300 to 550 led for many major cities and urban areas throughout the world;
                                                               1.3 Consumption surveys    3


      from 90 to 150 led in areas where supplies are short or there are many street
      standpipes, or many of the population have private wells.
In England and Wales the average total supply was 288 lcd (1998/99). In Scotland it was
460 lcd and in Northern Ireland 407 led in 1997/98, mainly because these areas have a
high rainfall providing plentiful supplies of good quality water.


1.3      Consumption surveys
A consumption survey is necessary when losses appear to be large, or consumers in some
areas cannot get an adequate supply, or metering and billing practices appear to be
inefficient. This situation often occurs on many undertakings throughout the world where
lack of money and technical resources has resulted in water supply systems where leakage
and consumer wastage is high, and records of consumption are unreliable. In such a
situation, it should be noted that:
          Total supply =Total legitimate potential demand
                        plus consumer wastage and distribution losses
                        minus unsatisfied demand.
Hence the total supply can seem to be adequate when expressed as the water available per
head of population, but this may conceal the fact that, due to excessive wastage and
leakage, there is much unsatisfied demand because some consumers do not get the water
they need. It is then necessary to conduct a consumption survey to find the state of the
system. The steps involved are the following.
(1) Log the initial state of the undertaking before any remedial work is started, by
    marking on a map of the distribution system areas where water pressure is too low for
    consumers to get what they need (a) at peak demand times, and (b) during the whole
    of the daytime.
(2) Check the accuracy of source meters, e.g. by diverting the source output over a
    temporary measuring weir, or by measuring the input to a tank.
(3) Check the general validity of supply meter readings by, for instance, check-reading a
    number of meters over a period and comparing with the readings billed.
       Find the typical number of supply meters found stopped at any one time, and
    investigate what billings are made when meters are found stopped.
       Find the average age of meters and how frequently they are brought in for testing
    and repair.
       Test some meters of typical size and age for accuracy. Where more than 15% of
    meters are found stopped at any one time, or many meters are over 10 years old and
    not brought in for testing and repair, a substantial amount of under-recording must be
    suspected.
(4) Assess typical domestic consumption per capita by classifying dwellings into five or six
    classes, and test metering 30-35 dwellings typical of each class. (See Section 1.4
    below.)
(5) Test meter a few typical standpipes and, by estimating the population reliant on each,
    estimate the typical standpipe consumption per capita.
(6) Examine the supply meters on all large trade and industrial supplies; check the
    accuracy of those found in poor condition.
4   Public-water supply requirement and its measurement


      List the largest potential trade consumers and check their billing records to see
    whether they seem reasonable having regard to the size of their supply pipe, their
    hours of take, and amount of water likely to be used for their production. It can be
    found that some major consumer is missed from the billings, or an establishment may
    have two supply feeds of which only one is metered.
(7) Meter, or by some other means estimate, the amount of water supplied unmetered to
    such as government or municipal offices, and also to public parks and gardens to get a
    measure of their probable consumption.
From the foregoing an estimate can be made of the probable total potential demand on
the system in the following manner. On a map of the distribution supply districts, mark
areas of the different classes of housing. Using appropriate population densities per
hectare and measuring the areas of each class of housing within a district, estimate the
total domestic demand per district by using the appropriate consumption per capita
derived from Step 4. Add an allowance for unavoidable consumer wastage which will not
have been registered by the test metering under Step 4.
   In each district any standpipe consumption should be added, and the trade and other
non-domestic demands apportioned according to the character of the district and the
location of major trade consumers. An allowance for a reasonable degree of unavoidable
distribution leakage should be added, usually expressed as a percentage addition to the
total domestic and trade demand for each district. This gives the total average daily
demand on the whole system, broken down into sufficiently small supply districts for the
demand in each district to be distributed to 'nodal points' of the mains layout, i.e. key
junctions of mains. These 'nodaldemands' can then form the basis for an hydraulic
analysis of flows in the distribution system, as described in Section 14.14. From this can be
ascertained the adequacy of the distribution system to meet the demands.


1.4      Test metering in-house domestic consumption
To assess average domestic consumption per person when supplies are not metered or
records of metered domestic consumption are not reliable, it is necessary to test meter a
sample of properties. It is best to rely on the results of test metering 30-35 households
from each of five or six classes of households. Larger samples are difficult to conduct
accurately because of the need to ensure all meters work accurately, all properties are
leakfree, and the difficulty of keeping check of the number of people in each household.
The households test metered should be typical of their class; they should not be chosen at
random because the sample size is too small for random selection and could result in a bias
of the sample mean towards the higher or lower end of the range within the class. Only
about five or six classes of household should be adopted because it is difficult to
distinguish between a larger range of households with any certainty. The test period
should be 2-4 weeks, avoiding holiday times and, if possible, extremes of weather. Meter
readings and occupancy rates should be ascertained weekly. Theoretically a sample size of
at least 30 households is required to provide a reasonable estimate of the mean
consumption in a given class of households. In practice 35 properties per class will need to
be test metered to get a minimum of 30 valid results because of mishaps - a stopped meter,
a leak discovered, or occupants gone away, etc.
   Unfortunately all such tests show a wide scatter of results, as illustrated in Fig. 1.1. The
mean of a sample can therefore be substantially influenced by a few households where the
                                                          1.4 Test metering in-house domestic consumption                             5


       400 -                       1484        9412                                           ~529
                                                                                               489
                                                                                               465


       350 -




       300 -


"ID

g      250-

"0
 !._




.m     200-
tl:l
0
                                                   175
Cl.
t~
       150 -               M   _                                                        M-~
.n
_1                                 '"

                                                      M    113
       100
                                   10

                     i75                                       M         77

                                                                              M    57
                                                                                                                       M         51




         oL
        50
                                              tm                                                                      39

                     I
                   (a)        (b)         Upper       Middle       Low        Lowest     Upper        Middle   Lowest      Low
               ~         UK-----~         =               Istanbul                =       =          Egyptian------~ Egyptian village
                                                                                                       town

Fig. 1.1 Variation of domestic consumption per capita within a given class of dwelling. UK: (a) 1-2
occupancy and low number of water consuming appliances; (b) 2-4 occupancy in mainly detached
houses with high number of appliances. Data from Russac D. A. V., Rushton, K. R. and Simpson,
R. J. Insights into domestic demand from a metering trial. JIWEM, June 199 l, pp. 342-351. Istanbul
and Egyptian data from Binnie and Partners' Reports.


consumption seems extraordinarily high. Provided such high consumption is not due to
meter reading error, these figures should not be excluded because domestic consumption is
so highly variable. The problem is, however, that the sample size is too small to evaluate
the incidence of such high consumers which may be, for example, one in 20, so that a
sample size of 30 may contain no such high consumers, or one or two. However, if five
classes of housing are adopted there will be at least five separate samples from which to
judge, roughly, the frequency of such exceptional consumption.
   The mean value of per capita consumption should be the total consumption in the 30 or
so households tested in a given class, divided by the total occupancy during the test period,
because the total domestic demand is estimated on the basis of the population in each class
of housing.
6   Public water supply requirement and its measurement


   An alternative to test metering individual properties is to meter the flow through a main
supplying properties of the same class. But this method does not reveal high or low
household consumption that may need investigation, and may also include some leakage
from the supply main and service pipes downstream of the metering point. However it is a
useful supplementary method of assessing mean consumption if reasonably leak-free
conditions can be assured. Relying on analysis of existing billing records is inadvisable
because the purpose of test metering is to check the validity of billings.


1.5       Confidence limits for sample means
When the mean 2 of a sample is obtained, the probability that the mean # for the whole
population lies within a range of values about 2 is given by the formula # = 2 + Z sly/n,
where:
9     Z is the probability coefficient, value 1.96 for 95% probability, 2.33 for 98%
      probability, and 2.58 for 99% probability;
9     s is the standard deviation of the sample values:
          1

       _ ~ / ~ ( x - 2) 2
         V n-1
9     n is the number of values in the sample.
The formula is based on the assumption that the means of random samples from a
population are normally distributed. The term s/x/'n is called the 'standard error of the
mean' or 'standard error' (SE) for short.
  The formula is not as useful as might be expected because consumption per capita varies
so greatly that the standard deviation, s, of samples is seldom below 30 lcd and often
higher. This results in large samples being necessary to get a useful degree of accuracy in
the mean. For example, with an s value of 30 lcd a sample size of 865 is needed for 95%
probability the population mean lies within + 2 lcd of the sample mean. To test meter such
a large sample is impracticable. If, alternatively, existing billing records are used forthe
analysis, the weakness of this procedure is that the mean will include metering and billing
errors, consumer wastage and leakage, and it will be difficult to know accurately the
population in residence during the billing period.


1.6       Components of domestic in-house consumption
Table 1.1 gives some analyses of in-house domestic consumption in litres per resident per
day. Consumption is influenced by differences of climate, ablution habits, and the number
and capacity of water fittings installed. The figures are not strictly comparable because
they are obtained by different methods and are from samples inevitably limited in size. In
the 'diary' method, residents book down daily the number of times they use each fitting for
a period, and these are multiplied by the average consumption for each type of fitting used.
In the 'data logging' method, pulsed output consumer meters record flows at very frequent
time intervals and these are analysed by computer, the different uses being identified by
differences of flow pattern. In a few instances, notably work undertaken by Anglia Water
in UK, as many as 14 meters were installed in each household at every point of use.
T a b l e   1.1   Some breakdowns of domestic in-house consumption (in lcd)

                     UK                                                  USA
                                              NORWAY
                     Anglian S. West          Inst. of     MALDIVES      Dept.      M W D of S. Phoenix,  Denver,  Boulder, San Diego, Seattle,   Tampa,
                     Water   Water            Water        Male          Housing    California  Arizona   Colorado Colorado California Washington Florida
                     Co.     Co.     Scotland Research     Study         Estimate   average               (j)      (k)       (1)       (m)        (n)
                     1993    1985    1991     1983         1983          1983       1993
                                                           (e)           (f)        (g)         pre- 1990
                     (a)     (b)     (c)      (d)                                                                           1996-1998
                                                                                                1980 Code
                                                                                                (h)   (i)


 Toilet use           48       33      43        30          28           82        113         83    24      80      75      60        65          63
 Ablution
 -    baths           19   ]                     40         nil           26                    26    26       6       5       2         4           4
 - showers             6   t   41      50                    85           61         95         87    48      49      50      34        43          39
 - washbasin          13
  Clothes             30        18     37        25          35           64         64         63    42      59      53      62        45          54
  washing
  Kitchen             23       31        5       28          27           35         49         34    32      40      44      41        33          45
  use and
  cleaning
  Dishwasher           2                12                                    9      15          9      5      5       5       3         4           2
  Car washing          4        9        1        7         nil          excl.      excl.      excl. excl.   excl.   excl.   excl.     excl.       excl.
  and patio
  use
  TOTAL              145       132     148      130         175          277        336        302   177     239     232     202        194        207
Notes and sources.
(a) Data log of 100 properties 1992-93. JIWEM, Oct 1995, pp. 477--485
(b) Diary log of 863 properties. JIWEM, Dec 1988 pp. 626-631
(c) Wright P. Water Resources Management in Scotland, JIWEM, April 1995, pp. 153-163
(d) Water Bulletin, 18 March 1983, pp. 12-13
(e) Diary log of 63 properties with private wells, Binnie & Partners Survey.
(f) Estimate for non-conserving households with 19-26 1/flush toilets and 18-30 1/min showers. J A W W A , Mar 1987, pp. 52-58
(g) Metropolitan Water District of Southern California (MWD), Supplier to undertakings serving 14.9 million population. Figures are estimated
average for multi-family residences and may include leakage, etc. Report on Urban Use Characteristics, MWD, April 1993 by courtesy T. A. Blair,
Senior Resource Engineer, MWD.
(h), (i) Phoenix 1990 Code estimate is for households having 6 1/flush toilets 9 1/min showers, 139 1/load washing machines and 32 1/load dishwashers.
Data by courtesy T. M. Babcock, Water Resource Specialist, Phoenix City Water Dept.
G)-(n) Logs of 99-100 households for each city. Part of Residential End Uses of Water Study 1996-98, funded by AWWA Research Foundation and 12
municipalities. Data copyright Aquacraft Inc. and AWWA Research Foundation, by courtesy P. W. Mayer, Study project engineer, Aquacraft Inc.
Water Engineering & Management, Boulder, Colorado.
                               1.7 Ex-house use for garden irrigation and bathing pools    9

   The UK analyses shown in Table 1.1 are for relatively low domestic consumption,
partly because of their relatively early date and partly because they relate to housing areas
outside the most affluent parts of England. As Section 1.8 shows, average domestic
consumption has now risen to 146 lcd, but in the more affluent parts of England it
averages about 160 lcd.
   In USA the higher domestic consumption is primarily due to the larger capacity toilet
and shower fittings at present still in use. These are gradually to be replaced by lower
consumption fittings under the US Energy Policy Act 1992 as set out in Table 1.2. It will
take some years before sufficient numbers of the new 6-1itre flush toilets are installed to
have a significant effect on consumption; but some water authorities in USA are
encouraging this by offering rebates on water charges to customers who change to 6-1itre
toilets. US toilets, however, are prone to leak because they use a horizontal flap or drop
valve which is raised to start the flush, the valve re-seating when the toilet tank is nearly
empty. New York reported that, of 80 000 6-1itre flush toilets installed, 1.5% were found
leaking due to faulty flap valves. 5 Consequently some US water suppliers allow 15 lcd for
'toilet leakage' in their estimates of consumption.
   Air conditioner and humidifier usage is excluded from the US figures in Table 1.1.
Evaporative or 'desert' coolers are used in some parts of western USA where the climate is
hot and arid. Such coolers use a fan to draw air through a vertical porous pad of cellulose
fibre, down which water is trickled. One type recirculates the surplus water and uses 12-
15 l/h; another type bleeds off part of the surplus water to reduce deposits on the porous
pad and uses up to 40 1/h. The consumption effect of such coolers depends on the
percentage of dwellings equipped with them and the length of the hot season. Phoenix City
in Arizona, 6 where the summer climate is exceptionally hot and dry (July average 40~
and 29% daytime humidity) estimates evaporative coolers add 86-98 lcd to annual
average daily domestic consumption, based on 48% of Pheonix residences possessing
them. The MWD of Southern California 7 estimates that only about 1% of the average
residential water use is used for cooling, representing about 5 lcd; but this is an overall
average for coastal, inland valley, and desert climate regions with the greater part of the
population residing in the coastal region. In hot and wet climates, as in the tropics with a
high humidity, evaporative coolers are not used. The electrical air conditioners used in
such climates do not consume water.


1.7     Ex-house use for garden irrigation and bathing pools
Garden watering in UK can increase daily consumption by 30-50% during a prolonged
dry period, but the total amount used in a year depends on whether a 'dry' or 'wet'
summer is experienced. In the UK's changeable climate, dry summer periods are often of
relatively short duration and the time-lag between the start of a dry period and the build-
up of garden watering demand means that the peak of the latter is short lived so the
amount used on garden watering in a year of 'average' weather, when expressed as an
average annual daily amount, is not large enough to be separately quoted. In the north of
UK prolonged dry periods are rare; but in the drier south-eastern part of England, garden
watering has been estimated to account for nearly 5% of the total supply during recent
years of prolonged low summer rainfall, such as in 1995-96.
   In the USA the water used for irrigation of household lawns and gardens is very
substantial- exceeding the in-house consumption. In the drier western states, summer
10   Public water supply requirement and its measurement


Table 1.2    Sizing of domestic water fittings

                          USA Energy Policy Act 1992                  UK Water Supply
                                                                      (Water Fittings)
                          Before              After                   Regulations 1999
                                   Note (a)                           Note (b)
WC toilets
-size of flush            13-26 litres        6 litres                7.5 litres until 1 Jan. 2001,
                                                                      6 litres from 1 Jan. 2001 -
                                                                      but cisterns installed before
                                                                      1 July 1999 can be replaced
                                                                      by same volume
- type of flush           flap-valve          flap-valve              siphonic until 1 Jan. 2001
                                                                      from 1 Jan. 2001 flushing
                                                                      or pressure flushing cistern
Showerhead flow           11-30 1/min         9.5 1/min max.          as BS 6700: 1997,
                                              at 8 psi                i.e. 12 1/min (13 mm supply)
Faucet, i.e. tap          10-26 1/min         9.5 1/min max.          as BS 6700: 1997,
                                              at 8 psi                i.e. washbasin 6-9 1/min (13 mm)
                                                                      kitchen 6-12 1/min (13 mm)
                                                                      bath 12-16 1/min (19 mm)

Typical consumption of other water using appliances

                              As Phoenix Water Undertaking USA UK required for efficiency
                                                               as Water Supply (Water
                              Prior to new        Under new    Fittings) Regulations 1999
                              codes               codes
                                         Note (c)              Note (d)
Clothes washing machines 208 1/load                      139 1/load       27 litres per kg of load
                                                                          (av. actual 56 (range 42-77)
                                                                          litres per 2.5 kg load)
 Dishwashing machines          53 l/load                 32 1/load        4.5 litres per place setting
                                                                          (av. actual 23 (range 18-30)
                                                                          litres per full load).

Notes.
(a) The US Energy Policy Act 1992 applied to the manufacture and installation of new fittings as
from 1 Jan. 1994.
(b) The Regulations imply that a 7.5-1itre siphonic flushing stern installed after 1 July 1999 could not
be renewed by one of the same size after 31 Dec. 2000. The mode of flushing for 6-1itre cisterns is not
stated, thus flap-valve discharge is permitted and siphonic discharge is not precluded although it is
unlikely to be effective with 6-1itre cisterns unless new designs are possible.
(c) The code figure examples are those adopted by Phoenix Water Undertaking, 1997.
(d) Values are from Which publication reports Feb. 1998, p. 42 (clothes washers); Dec. 1996, p. 42
(dishwashers).



irrigation use may range from 300 lcd (e.g. Boulder, San Diego) to 600 lcd (Eugene) or
even 800 lcd (Denver). 8 Similar high consumption for garden irrigation is experienced in
                                                   1.8 General levels of &-house domestic consumption                              11


south Australia, the summer use ranging from 150--300 lcd in metered supply areas to
400 lcd in unmetered areas. 9 The total amount used depends on the length of the dry
season and the mix of housing in an area. The MWD of southern California 7 estimates
average annual household irrigation use amounts to about 175 lcd for people living in
single family dwellings and about 70 lcd for those living in multi-family dwellings, i.e.
blocks of flats, etc. These MWD averages conceal a wide variation according to climatic
location; residences in desert regions having nearly twice the average consumption of those
in the coastal regions, with those sited in inland valley regions coming intermediately.
   Water used for swimming pools depends on the incidence of such pools in an area.
Coupled with car washing and miscellaneous outdoor uses, the MWD of Southern
California estimates the consumption this represents is about 3% of the total average
residential consumption, or 15-20 lcd.


1.8                 General levels of in-house domestic consumption
In the UK in-house consumption is strongly related to the class of property served and, in
many other countries this also applies, as shown in Figure 1.2. Excluding USA where large
capacity water fittings are still in use, domestic in-house consumption for average middle
class properties having a kitchen, a bathroom or washroom, and some form of waterborne
sanitation, falls into a fairly narrow range of 120-155 lcd irrespective of climate or
country. Other factors, such as occupancy and household income, influence consumption;
but these are unstable factors impracticable to ascertain. The ACORN socio-economic,
property type and location, etc. classification which is available in UK, although used by

      300


      250                                                                                         I




"O
 o
                                                              Mid Southern
v
c     200 -                                                   849 households ~ , ~ . ~ , ~ - -x
O

E                                   Northumbrian               ~      S       -   -   -       "
      150       -
                                    672 households
t-
O                                                   .o,I--;               X " "
O


      lOO       -
<                                                              Isle of Wight    560 households
                                                                5346 households
       50-
                     Lower income               Middle income property                                Higher income
                       property             Lower       Middle        Upper                              property
            0          I       I               I       I        I         I       I                   I       I       I        I
                           s        s       s     s       s       s      s                s       s       s       s        s
                                             Rateable value of property 1993
                                     s             s              s              s                        s               xs
                                         Approximate capital value of property 1998
Fig. 1.2 Relationship between in-house domestic consumption and property class- UK water
companies. Source: National Metering Trials 1989-1993, Final Report 1993.
12   Public water supply requirement and its measurement


some water companies, is not entirely satisfactory, ~~ but has the advantage of being a
'ready-made' classification. The class of dwelling occupied, in terms of type (fiat or house,
etc.) and value (size, age, etc.), is the most practicable basis to use for estimating domestic
consumption, since it permits visual identification of the predominant class in an area, and
the average occupancy therein can be estimated with reasonable accuracy.
   The influence of dwelling class can be seen in the figures of average domestic
consumption in England and Wales given below. ~1 The higher domestic consumption
reported by the Water-only Companies reflects the fact that 87% of the population they
serve resides in the more affluent southern parts of England where housing standards are
generally higher than in the north.

                                 10 Regional water              16 Water-only
1998-1999                        and sewerage companies         companies*
Population in households         39.38 million                  11.34 million
                                 Reported average domestic consumption
                                 excluding supply pipe leakage
Un-metered households            145 lcd                        159 lcd
Metered households               135 lcd                        140 lcd
(Percent popn metered)           (11.8%)                       (10.3%)
Weighted means                   143 lcd                        157 lcd
Overall mean                                     146 lcd

*Figures exclude Cholderton Water Co.
The lower figures for metered consumption cannot be taken as due to metering because
metering is optional for most householders, and householders choosing to have a metered
supply will therefore tend to be those expecting to pay less for their supply because of their
low consumption, such as single occupants or elderly retired people. This is reflected in the
household occupancy figures which average 2.0-2.2 people/household for metered
properties and 2.5 people/household for unmetered properties.
   Occupancy affects consumption per capita in individual households. The consumption
per capita in a one-person household tends to be 15-25% more than that in a three-person
household; while occupancies higher than three per household show a decline in per capita
consumption. But to estimate consumption for a whole area of a distribution system, it is
the average occupancy which is important. In England and Wales, average occupancy
according to census figures ~2 showed a decline from 2.70 in 1981 to 2.47 in 1991 and is
expected to continue to fall slowly. The 1991 figures varied from 2.10-2.20 in retirement
areas, to figures of 2.55-2.67 in the denser populated urban areas. In the USA mean
household occupancy reported by the US Census Bureau was 2.63 people in 1990 and this
also is expected to decline slowly. Individual US water suppliers report average
occupancies varying from 2.4 in multi-family complexes to 3.1 in single family residences;
 the usual range being 2.5-2.8 people per household. In many other countries, however,
 such as Egypt, India, etc. the average occupancy is five or six people per household.
    Domestic consumption reported by various countries is not necessarily comparable
mainly because there is no assurance that the figures quoted are produced on the same
 basis. In the USA the typical in-house consumption (excluding cooling) is 180-230 lcd, but
 this can be expected to reduce gradually with increased installation of low flush toilets and
 reduced rates of consumption by other fittings. Average domestic plus small trade
                                                                  1.9 Standpipe demand     13


consumption reported by European countries for 199513 centred about 150-160 lcd (range
113-260 lcd), Switzerland, Italy and Norway being the only ones above 200 lcd. The ADB
survey of 19963 showed that, of 27 Asian cities serving over 1 million population, the
middle third had 135-186 lcd domestic consumption: selected individual domestic
consumption b e i n g - Hong Kong 112 lcd; Jakarta 135; Shanghai 143; Colombo 165;
Singapore 183; Kuala Lumpur 200; Bangkok 265.
   Table 1.3 gives reasonable water supply allowances to make for average in-house
consumption according to the type of property served. The figures are not to be taken as
exact or always applicable, but they represent the average supply that should be sufficient
to meet usual in-house domestic requirements, given reasonably efficient control of
consumer wastage and leakage, and reasonably efficient metering, billing, and income
collection practices. The figures exclude water used for cooling, bathing pools and the
irrigation of lawns and gardens.


1.9       Standpipe demand
Standpipe consumption is influenced by the distance over which consumers must fetch
water, the usages permitted from the standpipe, the degree of control exercised over use at
the standpipe, and the daily hours of supply. At a WHO conference 14 standpipe
consumption of 20-60 lcd was reported from various parts of the world. The range of uses
can be as follows:
(1)   water taken away for drinking and cooking only;
(2)   additionally, water taken away for household cleaning, clothes washing, etc.;
(3)   additionally for bathing and laundering at the standpipe;
(4)   plus for watering animals at or near the standpipe;
together with
(5) spillage, wastage and cleansing vessels at the standpipe.
Where the supply is for drinking and cooking only, the consumption in terms of water
taken away may be only 7 led, but spillage and wastage at the tap will cause the minimum
consumption to be 10 led. Take-away consumption for items (1) and (2) is about 15-
20 led, but wastage and spillage will raise this to 25 lcd which is the minimum design figure
that should normally be allowed. Where there is little control exercised over consumers'
usage of water at a standpipe and, in any case where bathing and clothes washing takes
place at or near the standpipe, then 45 lcd needs to be provided. If purpose-built bathing
and laundering facilities are provided the consumption will rise to 65 lcd. In India 50 lcd is
the usual standpipe design allowance; in Indonesia where the water is sold from
standpipes, 15-20 lcd occurs. In rural Egypt where uncontrolled all-purpose usage tends
to occur, including watering of animals, test figures of 46, 51 and 71 lcd were obtained. ~5
   In low income communities in the lesser developed countries it is often the practice that
one householder has an external 'yard tap' which he permits his neighbours to use, usually
charging them for such use. These are, in effect, 'private standpipes' and, because carrying
distances are short, the consumption can be about 90 lcd based on numbers reliant on the
yard tap water.
   A public standpipe should supply at a rate sufficient to fill consumers' receptacles in a
reasonably short time, otherwise consumers may damage the standpipe in an attempt to
14               Public water supply requirement and its measurement


Table 1.3              In-house domestic water and standpipe demand - suggested design allowances

                                                                                      UK and   Elsewhere in
                                                                                      Europe   warm climates
Class occupancy and type of property                                                  (lcd)    (lcd)
A1 Highest income groups: villas, large detached houses,                              190      230-250
   large luxury flats
A2 Upper middle income groups: detached houses, large flats                           165      200-230
B 1 Average middle income groups: two- or three-bedroomed                             1 5 5    1 8 0 - 2 0 0


    houses or flats, with one or two WCs, one kitchen, one bath
    and/or shower
B2 Lower middle income groups: generally small houses or                              I40
   flats with one WC, one kitchen, one bathroom
         - d i t t o overseas block metered                                                    160+
         - d i t t o   overseas individually metered                                           130
C1 Low income groups: small cottages; flatlets; bedsits with                          90-110
 _
   kitchen and bathroom
     .




Overseas:
C1 Tenement blocks, high density occupation with one shower,
   one Asian toilet, one or two taps
         - block metered or free                                                               130+
         -        individually metered                                                         90
C2 Lowest income groups: above poverty line: low grade
   tenement blocks with one- or two-roomed dwellings and high
   density occupation
     with communal washrooms (unmetered)
         -                                                                                     110
     with one tap and one Asian toilet per household: block metered
         -                                                                                     90
 C3 Lowest income groups: one tap dwellings with shared toilet or                              50-55
    none; dwellings with intermittent supplies
 D Standpipe supplies
    in urban areas with no control
         -                                                                                     70+
    in rural areas under village control
         -                                                                                     45
             -    rural but with washing and laundering facilities at the standpipe            65
             -    minimum for drinking, cooking and ablution                                   25
             -drinking and cooking only                                                        8-10

Note. Figures exclude lawn and garden irrigation, bathing pool use and use of evaporative coolers;
but include an allowance for unavoidable consumer wastage.


get a better flow. In R a n g o o n the water undertaking uses short standpipes, permitting a
typical vessel to be stood on the ground below the tap, so water is not wasted. The water
pressure is low but the tap is 19 m m (3/4 in) size so that it gives a good flow. The tap is
press operated, t-he b o d y being made of cast iron so that it does not present a temptation
for the-ft. Brass taps often get stolen from standpipes. The hours of supply need to be
adequate morning and evening, and proper drainage should be provided at the standpipe
to take away spillage.
                                                               1.11 Agricultural demand    15


1.10    Industrial and commercial demand
Industrial demand for water can be divided into four categories.
(1) Cooling water demand- usually abstracted direct from rivers or estuaries and returned
    to the same with little loss. None is used from the public supply.
(2) Major industrial demand- factories using upwards of 1000 m3/day for such industries
    as paper making, chemical manufacturing, production of iron and steel, oil refining,
    etc. Such large supplies are frequently obtained from private sources. A few public
    water undertakings supply 'non-potable' water for such purposes. Such a supply is not
    intended for drinking or culinary uses and may undergo no treatment by the water
    supplier, or it may receive precautionary disinfection in case it is inadvertently used by
    someone for drinking. Dependent upon the type of industry served, a user may apply
    extensive treatment to the supply because some industries require very low suspended
    or dissolved solids in the water. These non-potable supplies are always shown
    separately from the 'public' water supply statistics.
(3) Large industrial d e m a n d - factories using 100-500 m3/day for food processing,
    vegetable washing, drinks bottling, chemical products, etc. These demands are often
    met from the public supply.
(4) Medium to small industrial demand- factories and all kinds of small manufacturers
    using less than 50 m3/day, the great majority taking their water from the public
    supply.
Since all factories and manufacturers have staff on their premises, they will all take some
water from the public supply for the use of such staff, irrespective of whether they have a
private source of supply. Some more consistent figures of demand for various types of
industry are given in Table 1.4. Often it will be found that about 90% of the total
industrial demand in a large industrial area is accounted for by only 10-13% of the
industrial consumers. Hence it is important to check the accuracy of metering these few
large industrial consumers when conducting a consumption survey of the type outlined in
Section 1.3 above, because an error in measuring their consumption can have a major
effect on assessment of losses.
   Figures for light industrial demand in industrial estates are given in Table 1.5. Only a
few service industries on such estates, e.g. milk bottling, concrete block making, laundries,
etc. use much process water. Many light industries, such as those involved in printing,
timber products, garment making, etc. use water only for their staffs.
   Commercial and institutional metered demand for shops, offices, schools, restaurants,
hotels, hospitals, small workshops and similar activities common in urban areas, appears
to run at an average of about 25 led over the whole population served in England. This
includes the domestic use by people living in such premises or in attached living quarters.
But in the USA it can be much higher: the Metropolitan Water District of Southern
California estimates it is 125-133 lcd for their region, of which almost 30% is
consumption for cooling systems and outdoor irrigation in the hot climate. 7 Typical
allowances made for demand in certain types of commercial and institutional premises in
UK are given in Table 1.6.
Table 1.4 Typical magnitudes of water demand by various manufacturing industries (note
individual factory consumption varies widely and recycling of water can reduce consumption
substantially)

Process or product                       Data source   Consumption quoted
Automobiles                              (a),(b)       12 m3/vehicle; 5 m3/car
Bakery                                   (b),(c)       2 m3/t of product; 1.4 m3/t
Brewery                                  (b),(d)       7 m3/m3; 7 m3/m 3 + 2 m3/m 3 for malting
Canning
- generally                              (a),(e)       25 m3/t, 20 m3/t
- meat, vegetables                       (f)           30-35 m3/t
- fish                                   (f)           60 m3/t
Confectionery                            (c),(f)       12 m3/t; 35 m3/t
Chemicals; plastics                      (a),(e)       9-23 m3/t; 30-80 m3/t
Concrete products                        (c)           1 m3/t
Concrete blocks                          (c)           1 m 3 per 200 blocks
Dyeing                                   (b)           83 m3/t of fabric
Fish processing and packaging            (d)           8.5 l/kg
Food processing and packaging:
- biscuits, pet foods, cereals, pasta    (f)           8-15 m3/t
         chocolate, cheese, cane sugar
- j a m s ,                              (f)           20 m3/t
-frozen vegetables, poultry              (f)           45-50 m3/t
Iron castings (small production)         (c)           0.4 m3/t used in sand moulds
Laundry                                  (b),(c)       20 m3/t of laundry; 26 m3/t
Leather production                       (a)           70 m3/t
Meat production, slaughtering            (a)           5 m3/t livestock;
                                         (b),(f)       40 m3/t fresh meat; 16.5 m3/t
Milk bottling                            (b),(d)       3 m3/m3; 2 m3/m 3
Paper production (wood pulp)
UK                                       (e)           135-150 m3/t; 90 m3/t av. UK
USA; South Africa                        (g)           240 m3/t av.; 44 m3/t
fine quality paper                       (g)           800 m3/t or more
Rubber, synthetic                        (a)           12-13 m3/t
Soft drinks                              (b),(d)       7 m3/m3; 3 m3/m 3
Terrazo tiles                            (c)           1 m 3 per 10 to 20 m 3 of tiles
Textile processing                       (d)           300 ma/t av.

Information sources.
(a) Weeks C. R. and Mahon T. A. A Comparison of Urban Water Use in Australia and US.
JA WWA, Apr. 1973, p. 232.
(b) Thackray J. E. and Archibald G. G., The Severn-Trent Studies of Industrial Use. Proc. ICE,
August 1981.
(c) Binnie & Partners. Survey of Water Use in Riyadh Factories, 1977.
(d) Schutte C. F. and Pretorious W. A. Water Demand and Population Growth, Water South Africa,
1997, pp. 127-133.
(e) Rees J., The Industrial Demand for Water in SE England. Weidenfeld, London, 1969.
(f) Whitman W. E. and Holdsworth S. D. Water Use in the Food Industry. Leatherhead Food
Research Association, 1975.
(g) Van der Leeden F. Water Resources of the WorM. Water Information Centre Inc., 1975.
                                               1.12 Public and miscellaneous use of water         17


Table 1.5   Light industrial estate water consumption

    Usage                                                  Consumption allowance
Basic factory requirement for cleaning and sanitation      0.05 m3/day per worker
Average consumption in light industrial estates with       0.25-0.50 m3/day per worker
no large water-consuming factories
Average consumption in light industrial estates which      0.90-1.10 m3/day per worker
include a proportion of factories engaged in
food-processing ice-making and soft drinks manufacture
Typical factory consumption SE England: (a)
- clothing and textiles                                    90% under 6 m3/day per factory
- leather, fur, furniture, timber products, printing,      70-80% under 25 m3/day per factory
metalworking and precision engineering.
- plastics, rubber, chemical products, mechanical          70-85% under 125 m3/day per factory
engineering, and non-metallic products

(a) Source: Rees J. The Industrial Demand for Water in SE England, Weidenfeld 1969.


Table 1.6 Allowances frequently used for water consumption in commercial and institutional
establishments

Usage                             Consumption allowance
For small trades, small           In the U K - 3-15 lcd. Elsewhere- up to 25 lcd (applied as
lock-up shops and offices         a per capita allowance to the whole urban population)
in urban areas
Offices                           65 1/day per employee (but actual consumption can be
                                  three to four times this if waste is not attended to).
Department stores                 100-135 1/day per employee
Hospitals                         350-500 1/day per bed
Hotels                            350-400 1/day per bed; up to 750 1/day per bed luxury
                                  hotels in hot climates
Schools                           25 1/day per pupil and staff for small schools; rising to 75 I/day
                                  per pupil and staff in large schools

Note. The figures for offices, department stores and schools apply to the days when those
establishments are open.




1.11 Agricultural demand
Most water for crop irrigation, horticulture, greenhouses, etc. is taken direct from rivers or
boreholes because it does not need to be treated. The principal use of the public supply is
for the watering of animals via cattle troughs, for cleaning down premises, and for milk
bottling. Table 1.7 gives estimates of such consumption.
18   Public water supply requirement and its measurement


Table 1.7 Agricultural water demand

Usage
Dairy farming          (a) av. 70 1/day per cow in milk at 22 1/day milk plus 20-50 1/day per
                           cow for dairy cleaning
                       (b) 4.5 1 per litre of milk, but less depending on dry matter
                           content of feed
                       (c) 38-95 1/day per cow
Beef cattle            (a) 25-45 1/day per animal for drinking
                       (b) 27-33 1/day per animal winter and 33-36 1/day summer
Beef- abattoir use     (c) av. 1500 litre per animal
Sheep                  (a) 3-5 l/day per animal for drinking
Pigs                   (a) 2-9 1/day per animal for drinking
Sows in milk           (a) 18-23 1/day per animal
                       (b) 23 l/day per animal
Poultry                (a) 20-30 1/day per 100 birds for egg production; 13 1/day per 100
                           birds for meat production
                       (c) 20 1/day per 100 birds for meat production plus 17-20 1/bird for
                           abattoir and packaging
Crop irrigation        (a) dependent on crop and rainfall; rough rule used for SE England-
                           13 mm of water per week in growing season
                           (= 130 m3/ha per week)
Glass house production (a) 20 m3/day per hectare or more in growing season 12.4 m3/day per
                           hectare in winter rising to three times this or more in spring
                           and summer

(a) Soffe R. J. ed. The Agricultural Notebook, 19th edn. Blackwell Science, Oxford, 1995, p. 532.
(b) Dalai-Clayton D. B. Blacks Agricultural Dictionary, 2nd edn. A. & C. Black, London, 1985.
(c) Schutte C.F. and Pretorious W. A. Water Demand and Population Growth. Water South Africa,
April 1997, p. 127-133.




1.12     Public and miscellaneous use of water
Public use of water in overseas countries can be substantial, especially in hot dry climates
where the water is used to maintain parks, green areas, ornamental ponds, fountains and
gardens attached to public buildings. The quantities used can be prodigious and have to be
assessed for each particular case in relation to the area to be watered and the water
demand of the type of cover planted, e.g. grass, date palms, etc. Often the quantity of
water used for such purposes is only limited by the available supply. In addition, in many
overseas countries, supplies to government owned properties such as government offices,
museums, universities, military establishments, are often considered as 'public usage' and
are not metered and paid for.
   In the U K supplies to public parks, government or local authority offices and similar
would be metered and thus form part of the metered consumption. The only unmetered
usages of water not paid for would be for firefighting, and for routine maintenance
purposes such as for fire hydrant testing, sewer cleansing, and flushing dead ends of mains.
                                                          1.13 The accuracy o f water meters        19


Minor unquantified usages will be for building supplies, usually via a temporary standpipe
attached to a fire hydrant. The total of these is estimated by undertakings in England and
Wales to be about 1.2% of the total input, equivalent to about 3 lcd on the total
population. 11


1.13        The accuracy of water meters
British Standard 5728: Part 1 specifies the accuracy required for four Classes of cold water
meters used in UK. Table 1.8 summarises them. The smaller meters used for domestic
supply are usually Class C or D and are 'semi-positive meters' in which an eccentrically
pivoted plastic cylinder is caused to rotate by the through-flow of water (see Chapter 15).
Larger meters, predominantly used on trade supplies, are usually Class B, and are
'inferential' meters of the rotating vane type. Household domestic supply meters on a 13 or
19 m m diameter service pipe would normally have a m a x i m u m capacity of 3 m3/h because
the m a x i m u m drawoff rate is unlikely to exceed 40 litres/min, i.e. 2.4 m3/h (see Section
15.5). Figure 1.3 shows the BS accuracy limits for Class B, C and D meters of 3 m3/h
m a x i m u m c a p a c i t y , and some test results on Class B and C meters obtained by WRc. 16
The latter show that, for meters of 3 m3/h m a x i m u m rating, Class B meters are likely to




Table 1.8    Meter accuracy requirements to BS 5728

                              Percentage of nominal flow rate of a meter to which
                              the accuracy quoted left applies
Accuracy                      Class B                   Class C                     Class D
For meters less than 15 m3/h nominal rating:
for + 2% accuracy             8% and above*             1.5% and above*             1.15% & above*
for   ~5% accuracy          2%-<8%                      1.0%-<1.5%                  0.75%-<1.15%
For   meters of 15 m3/h nominal rating and above:
for   + 2% accuracy         20% & above*                1.5% and above*             Not specified
for   + 5% accuracy         3%-<20%                     0.6%-<1.5%

*'And above' m e a n s - to maximum flow rate. See Notes below.
Notes.
1. The maximum flow rate is defined in BS 5728 a s - 'the highest flow rate at which the meter is
required to operate in a satisfactory manner for a short period of time without deteriorating'.
2. The nominal flow rate is defined as half the maximum flow rate and also that at which 'a water
meter is expected to operate in a satisfactory manner under normal conditions of use, i.e. under
steady or intermittent flow conditions'.
3. Manufacturers' literature should be consulted for the nominal rating of meters which varies
according to the type and size of meter. Some manufacturers quote a nominal rate which is more
than half the maximum flow rate.
4. BS 5728 requires the 'starting flow' at which a Class D meter begins to register to be not more than
half the minimum flow at which + 5% accuracy is obtained, but does not specify a starting flow for
Classes B and C meters.
5. Manufacturers' literature should be consulted for actual accuracies, starting flows and loss of head
through meters.
20    Public water supply requirement and its measurement

                   Class D limits
                          Class C limits                                            Class B limits

      +5% I    I.'......I.....--#,                  I- . . . . . . . .        S                                           ,i
                                            '
      +2%                    '. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
               I          I                                        I               I           I    I    I    I      I      I  I
                        . . . . . . . . .




              10       .20,,....~.' ~ 0 / 40                    50              60            70   80   90   100    110   120 130 I/h
     -2%               i I -. .[.-.-. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             7"
,..~ -5%               :         /I-- .......                                                                 litres/hour _, ~   3000 I/h max.


     -10%                                       J    " Inferential meter performance class B                   "~
                                                                                                               t
                                                I    ~Rotary piston meter performance Class C f Test results

                                                                         Both meters 15 mm size,
     -20%                                                                maximum rating 3000 I/h


Fig. 1.3 Performance of two types of small water meters at low flows (as WRC Report TR 221
1984).


exceed 5% under-registration at flows below 30 1/h and Class C meters at flows below
15 1/h. The specified limits for similar sized Class D meters show they may exceed 5%
error at flows below 11.25 1/h.
   Consequently domestic meters tend to under-record consumption due to their inability
to measure low flows accurately. A relatively fast dripping tap (4 drips/s) will waste 3-4 1/
h, and the thinnest continuous stream about 6 1/h. Both these flows will tend to be under-
measured, if recorded at all. The WRc found that low flows caused by near-closed float
valves to WC cisterns and storage tanks were also seriously under-recorded, resulting in a
mean under-registration of 2.5% for 'direct' supply systems and 6% for 'indirect'
systems. ~6 In a direct system all cold taps and WC cisterns are fed direct from the mains. In
indirect systems only the cold water drinking taps in the kitchen and bathroom are fed
direct from mains, the rest are fed from a float valved roof storage tank. The accuracy of
all meters also deteriorates with age. Most tests show the great majority of domestic
meters under-record; rarely does a meter over-record.
   In the National Metering Trials in England 1989-1992 (see Section 1.19) it was found
that, of 200 meters withdrawn annually for testing, approximately 20% had failed, most
by under-recording; about one-sixth of them due to blockages from particles in the flow. iv
Estimates of the under-recording of supply meters reported by undertakings in England
and Wales for 1998-99 are mostly 3-4%. The two water companies having the largest
number of domestic meters installed, namely Anglian and Severn Trent, estimated their
household meters under-registered by 2.9 and 4.1%, respectively, and their trade meters by
2.6 and 6.6%, respectively. 11 Generally 3% under-recording would be considered an
average for semi-positive meters and 5% under-recording for inferential meters; but if
meters are over 10 years old and have not been regularly removed for testing and
refurbishment, substantially greater under-recording must be suspected.
   Trade meters of the inferential (vane) type usually conform to Class B accuracy. One
manufacturer claims an accuracy of 1% down to one percent of the maximum flow for
meters on 80-150 mm diameter pipework. But such meters h a v e t o be carefully sited
                    1.15 Minimum night flows as an indicator of leakage and wastage        21


because an adjacent upstream bend or tee can seriously affect their accuracy. Because of
this WRc thinks that their under-recording in practice is greater than that of domestic
supply meters. The 'multi-jet' meter (dividing the flow into several streams) was developed
to improve the accuracy of such meters.
   Source meters and meters on large mains have hitherto been of the Venturi or Dall tube
type so that the majority of existing meters are of this type. But in future increasing use is
likely to be made of the electromagnetic meter which is simpler to install and more
accurate. Venturi and Dall tubes can have an accuracy of + 1.25%, but must be carefully
sited to prevent turbulence caused by an upstream bend or valve, etc. affecting their
performance. Even the downstream length of main must be free of obstruction for several
pipe diameters (see Section 10.16). Electromagnetic meters have an accuracy of + 1% but
recent developments have enabled some manufacturers to quote +0.25% accuracy for
their meters (see Section 15.15).




1.14    Consumer wastage
The term 'consumer wastage' is used to mean all leakage and waste of water on consumers'
premises and from their supply pipes. Where supplies are plentiful or water is cheap, or
waste prevention measures are slack, consumer wastage can be 50 lcd or more. Block
metering also tends to result in high consumer wastage because, under this system where
one meter measures the supply to a block of flats or households and the landlord pays the
water charges (recovering the cost through the rents charged), individual householders do
not pay for their own wastage. Table 1.3 shows that 25--40% extra domestic consumption
needs to be allowed for block metered premises.
   In England and Wales wastage on consumers' internal plumbing systems is not high
because for many years the quality and design of water fittings and plumbing has been
controlled by byelaws, exercised by every undertaking. These byelaws require, among
other things, that all WC and storage cisterns are float valve controlled and the cistern
overflow pipe must discharge outside the premises. Hence overflows can be easily noticed
or heard by waste inspectors checking premises at night; and the nuisance created by the
overspill at the premises may (sometimes) motivate the occupier to take remedial action.
Some wastage caused by dripping taps is, however, unavoidable. Some undertakings in
UK at one time re-washered taps free of charge as part of their waste reduction routines.
   In the UK a major cause of consumer wastage is leakage from consumers' underground
supply pipes because many are over 50 years old and made of galvanised iron. In the
installation of 50 000 meters on household supplies in the Isle of Wight during the
National Metering Trials, 1989-92, it was reported that 8000 service pipes were either
repaired or replaced in part or in total, most defects being found on the customer's supply
pipe downstream of the boundary stopcock. This represents 1 in 6 of such pipes being
found faulty. 18 For 1998-99, undertakings in England and Wales reported that estimated
leakage from consumers' unmetered underground supply pipes averaged about 46 1/day
per property (range 20-61 1/day); but on properties where meters were installed at the
boundary of consumers' premises, supply pipe leakage was reported as averaging 18 1/day
per property (range 0-28 !/day). 11
22   Public water supply requirement and its measurement


1.15        Minimum night flows as an indicator of leakage and wastage
The minimum night flow (MNF) to a section of the distribution system can act as an
indicator of distribution leakage and consumer wastage in the section. There is, of course,
some legitimate demand for water during the hours 01.00 to 04.00 when flow testing takes
place and this has to be deducted from the M N F recorded. Table 1.9 shows the lowest
night flows found to small residential areas which can be taken as comprising legitimate
night domestic demand plus unavoidable consumer wastage from dripping taps. However,
the larger the test area metered the more likely it will include night-time consumption for
such a s - hospitals, nursing homes, police and fire stations, railway stations, airports,
clubs, etc. Measuring their consumption during the period of night testing, by reading
their meters at the start and end of a night test, is usually not practicable. Instead their
usual rates of night consumption have to be found before the test takes place and deducted
from it.
   Although M N F tests do not measure quantities of water lost, they are a good indicator
of the state of a system, and Table 1.10 shows the usual interpretation of results obtained.
An M N F test is, however, impracticable if the supply is intermittent or houses have large
storages which fill at night. In the U K house-storages are relatively small and therefore are
usually full before an M N F test takes place. Increased pressure at night can, however,
result in some more water going into storage. Scott reported increased water pressure at
night caused his storage tank to fill by a further 11 litres. ~9




Table 1.9 Minimum night flows found on groups of domestic premises

               MNF
 Reference     (1/h per connection)   Test conditions, etc.
 Gledhill      1.2                    Supply mains tested before and after for leaks; test repeated
                                      three times
 Reid          1.0                    Tests on leak-free portions of distribution systems serving
                                      750-1000 dwellings in Manchester
 Cook          1.5-2.1                Deduced from night consumption tests on five systems
                                      supplying 200-2200 people after a moderate leak detection
                                      exercise
 Shaw Cole     1.6                    Quoted as usual USA experience
 WRc           1.7                    Average minimum night use per household
                                      (or 0.6 1/h  No. of people)
 Edwards       2.2-2.5                Anglian Water Co. test on 100 metered properties 1992-1993

Sources.
Gledhill E. G. B. An Investigation of the Incidence of Underground Leakage. JIWE, 1957, p. 117
Reid J., Proc Symposium on Waste Control. IWES, 1974, p. 105.
Cook R. G. Discussion on Paper by Thackray et al. Proc. ICE, August 1978, Table 15.
Shaw Cole E. Water Losses and Leakage Control, Proc. IWSA Congress, 1978.
WRc, Managing Leakage; Report E, WRc, Water Services Assn & Water Cos Assn, 1994, pp. 35-36.
Edwards K. and Martin L., A Methodology for Surveying Domestic Water Consumption.
JCIWEM, Oct 1995, 477-488.
                                         1.16 Distribution lossesfrom 24-hour supply systems 23

Table 1.10 Figures for minimum night flow per connection

 MNF per
 connection             Interpretation
 5 1/h                  About the lowest found in practice on parts of systems in good condition
 71/h                   A frequent 'target level' for distribution districts, indicating good control
                        over leakage and wastage
 9 1/h                  Experienced on large systems where there is a fair amount of
                        nocturnal demand and/or some distribution leakage and consumer wastage
 11 1/h                 Indicative of substantial night demand and/or considerable distribution
                        leakage and/or consumer wastage




1.16      Distribution losses from 24-hour supply systems
Distribution losses comprise leaks from mains, joints, valves, hydrants and washouts, and
leaks from service pipes upstream of consumers' meters or boundary stopcocks. These
distribution losses cannot be measured directly but have to be estimated by deducting
estimated consumers' consumption (including estimated average leakage from their supply
pipes and plumbing systems) from the total input to a system. The ferrule connections of
service pipes to mains are often a major cause of distribution leakage. Hence distribution
losses are influenced both by the length of mains needed to serve consumers and the
number of service pipe connections per kilometre. The following are three estimates of
what has been found on UK distribution systems.
(1) Research by WRc in 1978 suggested distribution losses were in the range 100--200 1/h
    per km for 'newer' mains and 150-300 1/h per km for 'older' mains. 2~ As an example
    Scott estimated leakage from 1780 km of mains in Bradford was 212 1/h per km. 19
(2) Further research by WRc in 199421 collating data from numerous tests, suggested the
    following formula for estimating the aggregate of small leaks from distribution
    systems in England and Wales. The formula attempts to distinguish between mains
    losses and service pipe connection losses, as well as the influence of pressure.
For mains in 'average' condition:
          Leakage =(40 1/h per km of main + 3 1/h x No. connections/km)
                        x (P/50) 1"3 approx.*

where P is the average hourly pressure (m) over 24 h; plus or minus 50% for mains in
'poor' or 'good' condition, respectively.
(3) The 1997-98 reports from water undertakings in England and Wales 11 showed the
    following estimated distribution losses.




*The formula (P/50) 1"3 is used in place of WRc table of values and formula in Reports F and G 21
because it is simple and sufficiently accurate bearing in mind the difficulty of judging the condition of
the main.
24   Public water supply requirement and its measurement


                                                                  l/h per km
Company reports 1998-99                                           Average         (Range)
Regional water and sewerage companies (excluding Thames)          291             (156 -421)
Thames Water Co.                                                  773 (a)
Water-only companies                                              269             (156 - 387)

(a) Value reported from Thames appears unreliable.

   Some of the difference between the regional and water-only companies distribution
losses may stem from differences of approach in estimating losses, or because the larger
regional companies have a larger scale of problems to deal with. But physical factors may
also contribute to the difference. The regional companies supply the largest urban areas in
the country which tend to have older systems than the water only companies; some include
coal-mining areas where ground settlement has disturbed mains, and several have to
supply hilly areas requiring high distribution pressures.
   Leakage from service reservoirs can be found by direct static testing; hence it should not
comprise an ongoing loss. The WRc, 2~ collecting information on experience with 123
service reservoirs, reported three per 100 had experienced gross leaks, five per 100 had
leaked 2-4% their capacity a day, and 10 per 100 had leaked 0.5-1.5% capacity per day.
Acceptance figures for a new concrete service reservoir would normally be a drop in water
level of 1.5-2 mm in 24 hours. If the depth of water is 4 m (about the shallowest likely)
and the reservoir holds one day's supply, this would represent leakage not exceeding
0.05% of the average supply per day, which is a negligible amount. Overflow discharge
pipelines should be so designed that any overflow can be seen and therefore stopped.
   Leaks on distribution systems break out continuously so the total leakage from a system
for a period is the aggregate sum of each leak-rate multiplied by the time it runs before
repair. Hence the frequency with which all parts of a system can be tested for leaks
influences the level of leakage experienced. Obviously there is a practical limitation to that
frequency, so some level of leakage is unavoidable. There is also a need to determine the
economic level of resources which should be put into leak detection and repair. This is a
complex problem which is discussed in Chapter 15.


1.17     Total unaccounted-for water, or total losses
Total losses for a period have to be estimated by measuring the total input to a system and
deducting the amount supplied to consumers. Many different figures for losses are quoted
by water undertakings because 'loss' figures are influenced by many factors such a s - the
age of mains, supply pressures, efficiency of leak and waste prevention measures, and how
unmetered supplies are estimated. However from experience on projects to reduce losses
on water systems in UK and overseas, it is possible to liSt levels of loss and the
circumstances commonly found to give rise to them as shown in Table 1.11.
   Expressing total losses as a percentage of the supply can result in false comparisons,
because some undertakings may provide a large proportion of their supply through a few
connections to industry, whilst others have no large industrial supplies. Percentage losses
can also decline on account of a rise in consumption, and not because the losses have
actually been reduced. For this reason some authorities (e.g. OFWAT) prefer to quote
                                       1.17 Total unaccounted-for water, or total losses       25


Table 1.11 Typical figures of unaccounted for water

Percentage of
total supply                 Typical circumstances applying
6-9%                        Small residential areas with no leakage and all supply meters in
                            good condition
 10-13%                     Small systems with little leakage; residential parts of large systems
                            with little leakage
 16-17%                     Usual lowest reported for whole cities, often immediately following
                            some intensive leak eradication programme
20-22%                      Achievable in large systems with reasonably efficient leakage and
                            waste control methods
25%                         The average level attained by large systems with mains and service
                            pipes in moderate condition
26-35%                      Systems with old mains or where ground conditions are poor;
                            poorly metered systems; systems needing attention
35-55%                      Systems with many old mains and service pipes in poor condition;
                            systems with inefficient metering and lack of attention to leaks
                            and consumer wastage

The percentages include both distribution leakage and leakage on consumers' supply pipes and
plumbing systems.



average losses per km of mains, or per connection. But these measures do not provide a
common basis for comparison because rural undertakings have long mains serving few
connections per km, and urban undertakings have a high number of connections per km of
main. Hence losses as a percentage of input are still widely quoted because they provide a
rough common measure for c o m p a r i s o n - provided bulk supplies given are excluded and
the proportion of the supply taken by large industrial consumers does not vary greatly
from one undertaking to another. The most reliable indicator of losses is the minimum
night flow per connection for discrete areas of the distribution system as shown in Table
1.10.
   The age of a distribution system is a major factor influencing losses. High losses quoted
by several U K water undertakings are primarily due to the advanced age of many of their
mains and service pipes. Thames Water reported the average age of its mains was 70 years,
whereas many European cities report 40-45 years as the average age of their mains. 22 To
renew all old mains and service pipes in U K would take many years because of the cost,
and the need to undertake renewal of mains piecemeal to avoid unacceptable traffic
disruption.
   Different interpretations of the term 'unaccounted-for water' (UFW) or 'losses' can also
give rise to confusion. Zurich water undertaking stated in 1995 that 'water losses currently
amount to 6% of the production', but then a d d e d - 'in addition to a further 5% loss from
unaccounted-for continuous drippings of household installations'. 22 Quite a few low loss
figures have later been revealed as excluding consumer wastage. In the USA, as already
mentioned, 15 lcd 'toilet wastage' is commonly included in domestic consumption instead
of appearing under 'losses'. Maddaus reported that San Francisco and Los Angles,
targeting high consumption properties, found an average of 115 lcd unnecessary
26   Public water supply requirement and its measurement


consumption in them due to leaking fixtures. 23 World-wide figures for losses reported by
Geering a4 ranged from 28-27% (Hong Kong, Taiwan), through 22-20% (Portugal,
Lithuania, Malaysia, Sweden, Czech Republic) and 17-13% (Finland, New Zealand,
Italy, Spain, France) down to 7% (Germany, Switzerland, Singapore). Later figures for
1996 reported by ADB for 50 Asian cities reported they had unaccounted-for water
ranging from 6-63%.
   The wide range of figures for UFW probably reflects the variety of methods used to
estimate it as well as the range of actual losses themselves. Apart from metering errors
there is always some unmeasured consumption that has to be estimated. High figures in
excess of 45% UFW may be partly due to leakage from pipes, and partly due to lack of
data about consumption. Low UFW figures of 10% or less are possible if a system has
only recently been built or extensively renewed; but they can result from more liberal
estimates of unmetered water supplied than other undertakings adopt, or inclusion of
consumer wastage in consumption. The most plausible estimates of UFW come from
water authorities where full-scale attempts have been made to discover and rectify
leakages and losses from most of their distribution system.
   On the last mentioned basis, a realistic target for unaccounted-for water in cities and
large undertakings is 16-17% of the supply. This is usually achievable if adequate
resources are applied to leakage and waste prevention, and an undertaking does not have
many mains over half a century old. As an example of what can be achieved, the Delaware
River Basin Commission in US (referred in Section 1.1 above) reported that major
undertakings supplying 4630 M1/day from the Delaware Basin had reduced unaccounted-
for water from 20.9% in 1989 to 17.6% in 1993.2 For a UK total supply of about 288 lcd,
 16-17% losses would represent 48 lcd. Taking an average of 2.5 people per dwelling this
would imply an average loss figure of 120 1/day per property, or 5.0 1/h per connection.
This relates reasonably well to the minimum night flow likely to be experienced where
there is good control over leakage and wastage, as shown in Table 1.10.
   The water from leaks is not actually 'wasted'. Most of it percolates underground so the
hydrologist often needs to take account of it when assessing groundwater flows.


1.18     Effect of price on water demand
When water is sold by meter the theoretical price-demand relationship applying is:
         Q = kp e

where Q is the demand at price P per unit of consumption, k is a constant for the
particular units used and e is the coefficient which measures the 'elasticity' of the demand.
Since price increases will tend to cause a reduction in the demand, Q is proportional to the
inverse of P, hence e is negative. When e = -1.0, Q is proportional to 1/P, i.e. changes of
P cause almost proportional changes in Q. A low value of e indicates a high degree of
inelasticity, e.g. at e = -0.2 a 29% price increase of P would only cause Q to decrease by
5%.
   Measurements of e are difficult to make accurately because conditions before and after
some price rise are often not the same because of weather or economic changes. Also the
elasticity value must be influenced by the size of the price rise, a large one-off price rise
having a greater influence than smaller rises annually. A time lag also occurs between a
rise in price and any observable effect on demand. Consequently e values quoted show a
                                         1.19 The question of metering domestic supplies in UK   27


Table 1.12 Price elasticity of demand

 e value range              Type of supply for e value quoted                        No. of e
                                                                                     values quoted
 zero to -0.10              In-house demand; lower elasticity of municipal demands    6
 -0.11 to -0.25             In-house demand; household annual demand; some           11
                            municipal demand e values
 -0,26 to -0.50             Household summer demand; some municipal demands;         12
                            lower range industrial demand e values
 -0.51 to - 1.00            Usual upper range municipal demand e values; some        19
                            industrial demands; some household summer demands (a)
 -1.01 t o - 1 . 2 5        Highest e value of municipal demand; lower elasticity     6
                            range for UK industrial demand
 -   1.26   to   -   1.58   Out of house summer demand; higher e values for UK        3
                            industrial demand

Note.
The household values are mostly for USA and Perth in Australia; none are for UK. Municipal
demand e values are for USA and Canada, the e values being usually higher in the western drier
states.
Sources.
Hanke S. H. A Method for Integrating Engineering and Economic Planning, JA WWA Sept. 1978, p.
487.
Thackray J. E. and Archibald G. G. The Severn Trent Studies of Industrial Water Use. Proc. ICE,
Aug. 1981, p. 403.
DoE, Water Resources & Supply." Agenda for Action, Stationery Office, Oct 1996, p. 65.
(a) University of Delaware, Center for Energy and Environmental Policy, e value reported 0.605 for
'summer price elasticity; rising block rates'.



wide variation for apparently similar situations. Table 1.12 shows the most common
findings which come mostly from the USA and for periods of the 1960s and 1970s.
   Despite the difficulty of getting an accurate measure of e, the elasticity of demand is
important to an undertaking. Industrial and trade consumers and the higher income
householders are often a major source of income to many water undertakings overseas.
Hence the elasticity of their demand is an important factor, because a price rise may cause
them to reduce their take, thereby not producing a proportionate increase of income.


1.19             The question of metering domestic supplies in UK
With rising demand for water, increasing difficulty in developing new supplies, and recent
periods of low rainfall, the question has been raised whether universal metering of the 85%
unmetered domestic supplies in England and Wales should be adopted. The questions
centres mainly on cost, fairness to the consumer, and what reduction of consumption
could be expected.
   The National Metering Trials 1989-9225 showed the cost of installing a meter was s
inside a property and s       outside at 1993 prices. Only about 30% of properties could be
metered inside and 5% could not be provided with a meter at all due to plumbing
difficulties or high cost. In many older housing areas up to 20 properties can be fed by one
28   Public water supply requirement and its measurement


common supply pipe: one undertaking was said to have 650 000 properties fed through
joint service pipes. 26 Such common supply pipes are often laid at the rear of terraced
properties, even occasionally by a supply pipe laid through the roof space of a terrace of
properties. Multi-occupancy buildings, such as blocks of flats, are mostly fed by one
metered pipe and inserting meters on individual households would cause unacceptable
disruption of kitchen fitments.
    The savings in consumption achieved by metering are difficult to assess. The National
Metering trials gave erratic results; the best information coming from the Isle of Wight
where 50 000 meters installed resulted in 5-9% reduction. 27 Probably it is safe to assume
that metering can achieve at least 6% reduction, equivalent to about 10 lcd on current
domestic consumption in England and Wales of 150-160 lcd. In addition a reduction of
similar magnitude in supply pipe leakage can eventually be expected where meters are
installed outside. This is a useful benefit, but whether universal domestic metering is
justified by the cost is a complex matter. About half of the water companies in England
and Wales have installed domestic meters free when requested by the householder and all
water companies will be required to conform to this practice under a new Water Industries
Bill expected to be enacted by Parliament in 1999. 28 It is also usual practice to meter all
newly built houses. The aim is, of course, to restrain rises in domestic consumption,
especially in areas where additional sources of water are difficult or expensive to procure.
Reducing demand for fresh water is, of course, an environmental benefit to all.
    The Director General of Water Services has estimated the cost of metering will be 'no
more than s       a year ... split down as of two-thirds for water (s     and one third for
sewerage (s       28 The estimated cost, which is an average, covers meter provision, meter
reading and extra billing costs and is presumably per household metered. This represents a
substantial increase on current charges to consumers (see Section 2.19) and any offsetting
saving of cost due to the reduced production of water achieved by metering, is unlikely to
be significant (less than s 1 per annum), unless the reduction in consumption is sufficient to
 avoid the need to develop a new source of supply. However the Water Industries Bill 1999
will also extend indefinitely the right of companies to continue using rateable values as a
 basis for unmeasured charges for water and sewerage. Hence substantial extension of
 domestic metering is likely to occur only in those areas where it is economic to restrain
 rising demand for water.
    The question of fairness of metering to householders also causes debate. Metering
 obviously causes the large family to pay more than the small family; but if a tariff is
 adoptedwhich allows a large family a sufficient basic water allowance at low cost, then the
 single occupant can take several times his basic need at the same low cost. At present
 charging for unmetered supplies according to property value seems reasonably fair, since
 there is a strong relationship between property value and consumption per capita as
 Fig.l.2 shows and low income families generally reside in low value property. However,
 the metering of domestic supplies is so widely practised in many countries that it is difficult
 to maintain that domestic metering creates an unacceptable injustice.


1.20     Growth trends of consumption and forecasting future
         demand
The increase in public water supply consumption in England and Wales since 1970 is
shown in Fig. 1.4. Over the period 1970-99 total per capita consumption rose from 277 lcd
                                       1.20 Growth trends of consumption and forecasting future demand 29

to a peak of 331 lcd in 1995-96 which has been reduced in the last three years to 288 lcd in
1998-99 due to increased measures for reducing leakage. 11




        350 -                                                Total supply per capita
                                                                                                     330.2          330.9
                                                                   \       a2o s . . _ . _ _ . . . . ~             . ~


        .oo                                     /          --.
                2~~"                       ~                                                                                         288.2
                                                            Unmetered (domestic and small trades) and losses

        250 -                                                  ~               241 .1             246.6             245.7                    Supply
                                                                                                                                               pipe
                                                                                                                                             losses
"o
 0
v
                                       201.6                                                                 -~                     200.7
(~ 200
"0                                                                                                           "o
I,.,.
(~
Q.
              1                                                                                              "~
                                                                                                             o
                                           e-                                                                o
o.
 o
                                           =                                                                 LU                "9.9     Distribution
 L_                                        o                                                                 ~                          losses
 (D 150       --                           a                                                                 C:~

(/)
                                           b.
(1)
i--

..J
                                                              Metered (trade) supply
                   98.6                95.0                    ~'x-
        lo0   -             ~                           _.85.6         ~                           836               8~ 2           875
                                                        "~..,__~__~ 7 9 . 4 ~ . ~ _ e . . 4 t ~ r - ~               ~ ~ ,              9


         50 -                                                                                                                        Metered
                                                                                                                                     domestic


                                 Calender years                    = I=                   Years to 31 March                     =
                    !   i

              1970              ''''   197s '   '   '    ' 1'' ' 09 8' 1' " 985/6. . . .             ,.,,,
                                                                                                  1990/1               ,,,,,
                                                                                                                    199~/6            2000/1
                                                                                                                                         I,,
                !                        I                     I              !                      I                 I
              48.7                     49.3                49.6             49.9                   50.8              51.4
                                                                       Population (x 106)


Fig. 1.4 Growth of consumption per capita, England and Wales.
30   Public water supply requirement and its measurement


                                                           Change
                                                1995-96             1997/98
                                                           lcd
Domestic consumption:
  reduction in unmetered supplies              -12.9
  less increase in metered supplies            +6.0                  -6.9
  reduction in supply pipe leakage                                   -7.2
Trade and industrial consumption:
  reduction in unmetered supplies               -3.2
  reduction in metered supplies                 -3.7                 -6.9
Distribution leakage- reduction                                     -21.7
Net change                                                          -42.7

   The figures are the aggregate of 27 water company estimates whose individual estimates
vary. The reduction is primarily due to increased work on leakage reduction and measures
to restrain domestic consumption, but part may be due to variation of the summer climate
which affects household and garden water use.
   Long-term forecasting of water demand presents problems. Figure 1.4 shows how a
period of sharp economic decline in 1992 reduced domestic consumption immediately and
trade consumption the following year. Such incidents interrupt previous trends of increase
which, in the case of domestic consumption in developed countries, tend to be asymptotic
to some future maximum demand per capita. The ultimate maximum level of domestic
consumption in the developed countries depends on the standards of housing and
installation of water fittings householders can generally afford, coupled with the policy of
the water supplier. Where additional supplies are difficult or expensive to procure, or
where construction of any new water supply scheme would meet with strong
environmental opposition, measures to restrain the rise of domestic demand may be
adopted. In the UK metering of domestic supplies and for garden watering is being used
for this purpose. In the USA, the previous high levels of domestic consumption are being
reduced by the introduction of low consumption water fittings. Where, however, plentiful
supplies exist, as in Scotland at present, there may be no need for restraint.
   In under-developed countries future rises of consumption are often limited to the
amount of water available, with the result there can be much unsatisfied demand.
Estimating the long-term potential demand therefore involves a different approach.
Population growth forecasts may be available, but they can be unreliable because of
unexpected changes in birth rates. A United Nations manual 29 gives mathematical
methods of forecasting population growth based on fertility and mortality rates, sex ratio
and age distribution of population, etc.; but such data may not be available in a given case
or necessarily relevant. A major proportion of the population growth in many cities in
under-developed countries is often caused by migration from rural to urban areas. Hence
estimating future water demand of such a city involves the following steps.
(1) Plotting the population trend for the past 10-20 years, and investigating the likely
    proportion due to immigration and that due to natural increase of the existing
    population.
(2) Dividing the supply area into different classes of housing and assessing in which
    classes of housing the main rises of population have occurred and are likely to occur in
    the future.
                                                      1.21 Demand constraint methods     31


(3) Assessing typical rates of domestic consumption per capita in the different classes of
    housing.
(4) Seeking likely figures for future immigration and natural increase, and allocating these
    to appropriate classes of housing.
(5) Finding what provisions are being made, or are likely to be made, for new housing
    development.
On the foregoing basis, forecasts of future demand can be built up, but these may need to
be adjusted to ensure they represents a realistic continuation of past consumption trends
to date. Generally speaking, consumption forecasts for more than 10 years ahead tend to
be unreliable.
   Commercial and institutional rises of demand are often estimated as a per capital
allowance on the population growth, because these are activities tending to relate to the
size of the population served. Rises of manufacturing and industrial demand are, however,
usually dominated by the needs of a relatively few major manufacturing concerns whose
developments plans should be ascertained. The sum of their estimated individual future
requirements needs to be written down to allow for the probability that not all such
developments are likely to be achieved in the period of forecast.


1.21    Demand constraint methods
Much emphasis is being placed in the USA and in the drier parts of south-east England on
the adoption of demand constraint measures. In England emphasis is being placed on
extending the metering of domestic supplies and on increasing measures to reduce leakage
and wastage. In the USA, as required by the Safe Drinking Water Act 1996, the USEPA
published draft guidelines in 1998 to water suppliers for 'conservation planning', i.e.
measures to induce economy in the use of water. The guidelines propose three sequential
levels of approach. The first comprises universal metering, loss control (i.e. leakage and
wastage reduction), and public education. The second and third levels include such
measures as water audits, pressure management, re-use and recycling, and integrated
resource management.
   However, emphasis on demand constraint does not necessarily apply in all countries,
where some undertakings may be reluctant to curb the demand from metered industrial
consumers and from metered households occupied by higher income groups because the
payments made by them comprise a major part of the undertaking's income needed to
cross-fund supplies given free by standpipes or below cost to low income groups. The
position varies according to the circumstances applying.
   In many countries restricted hours of supply have to be adopted in order to prevent
consumption and losses exceeding available supplies. Metering is adopted for the same
reason but it must be reasonably efficient to be effective. Intermittent supplies bring many
problems. Consumers store water when the supply is on, but throw away the unused
balance when the supply next comes on, believing the new supply is 'fresher'. Consumers
may leave taps open so as not to miss when the supply comes on again, hence storage
vessels overspill. Intermittent supplies make leak detection and prevention of consumer
wastage very difficult. In fact the hours of supply have to be reduced to at most 4 hours in
the morning and 4 hours in the evening and frequently less, to gain control of
consumption. To some extent intermittent supplies are self-defeating- more consumer
wastage and more distribution leakage occurs because of the difficulty of maintaining the
32   Public water supply requirement and its measurement


system in a good state. The situation is often exacerbated by loss of income due to
difficulties with metering and income collection. Furthermore, if mains become emptied,
contaminated groundwater may enter mains and endanger the health of consumers.
Nevertheless many undertakings world-wide have to adopt intermittent supplies.
   On 24 hour supplies temporary reduction of domestic consumption during a shortage of
supplies is widely adopted by banning the use of water for washing vehicles, refilling
bathing pools, and the use of hosepipes and sprinkler equipment for the watering of
gardens. Good publicity in times of temporary shortage can effect a modest temporary
reduction in demand, perhaps as much as 10 percent. Metering of 24 hour domestic
supplies can curb excessive consumption, especially water used for lawns and gardens,
provided a two-part tariff is adopted which imposes a financial penalty if consumption
exceeds a reasonable amount. Promoting the use of low consumption dish and clothes
washing machines, toilets and showers makes a valuable reduction. The maintenance of
steady distribution pressures makes the operation of float-controlled valves and other
fittings more reliable so that less malfunctioning and wastage of water occurs. Wessex
Water found 5% and 10% consumption reductions in areas where static minimum
pressures were maintained day and night by means of remote pressure sensors and control
valves operated by telemetry under computer control. 3~ Keeping pressures to the
minimum necessary reduces water taken unnecessarily, and also achieves a substantial
reduction of the amount of water lost from leaks. According to the WRc formula given in
Section 1.16 a reduction of pressure from 50 to 30 m nearly halves the flow from leaks.
Flow limiters have sometimes been used to curb domestic consumption but have not
always been effective. If set too low, consumers leave taps open to fill containers which
overspill, or they aretempted to by-pass the limiter in an effort to get a better supply.
   To restrain commercial and institutional demand it is important to meter both large and
small shops, offices and other businesses, because wastage in them from plumbing fittings
is frequently high because no one is present who is responsible for paying the water
charges and the premises are unoccupied outside working hours. Many cases have been
reported of night and weekend flows to unoccupied premises being nearly as high as
daytime flows when staff are present - especially in government offices in some countries.
Manufacturers are also often unaware of the potential financial savings they can achieve
by adopting water conservation measures, not only by reduction of their water purchase
costs but also by reduction of their effluent discharge costs due to reduction of its volume
and improvement of its quality. Yorkshire Water Company has demonstrated the
considerable savings that can be achieved when manufacturers permit a water company to
investigate their processes and advise how economies can be achieved. 31


1.22    Maximum day's consumption
The maximum consumption for a day is usually expressed as a percentage of the average
annual daily supply. Some figures are given in Table 1.13. In temperate climates a design
figure of 140% is often adopted.


1.23 Maximum week's consumption
The maximum weekly demand (expressed as the average daily demand during the peak
week) is usually only a few percent below the maximum day demand, but it is of
                                                  1.24 Maximum hourly rate of consumption   33


Table 1.13 Maximum day's consumption

                                                                        Ratio: maximum day to
                                                                        average annual daily
    Location, etc.                                                      consumption
    UK
    Rural areas in which water is used for spray irrigating crops       140-150%
    Seaside and holiday resorts                                         130-140%
    Residential towns, rural areas                                      122-125%
    Industrial towns                                                    117-122%
    Peak due to garden watering in prolonged hot dry weather            150-170%
    World-wide
USA typical peak domestic demands due to lawn sprinkling:
- western state                                                         215-340%
- eastern states                                                        195-295%
As above- but excluding lawn sprinkling (i.e. in-house only):
- western states                                                        180-185%
- eastern states                                                        130-140%
Cities with hot dry summers                                             135-145%
Cities in equable climates                                              125-135%
Cities with substantial industrial demand (e.g. Singapore 124%;         110-125%
Hong Kong 122%; Penang 116%; Damascus 115%;
Toulon 115%; Marseilles 111%)

Note. USA figures from Linaweaver F. P. et al., A Study of Residential Water Use, Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, MD, 1967.



importance because the daily overdraw above the average for seven consecutive days
cannot usually be met from the amount of service reservoir storage provided. This means
that the maximum output of the source works must be at least equal to the average daily
demand for the 7 days of the peak week.


1.24        Maximum hourly rate of consumption
The maximum hourly demand depends upon the size of the population in the area served
and the nature of the demand. For mainly domestic areas, excluding garden watering and
sprinkler demand, the peak flow factors shown in Fig 1.5 are applicable in UK. The
domestic peak period for residential areas is usually between 07.30 and 09.00 hours or
earlier for commuting areas; and about noon for mixed residential and industrial areas.
However garden watering demand can create an evening peaking factor of 3.0 or more. In
the USA with its hot summers, the peak hourly factor for in-house demand was reported
as about 3.0 in eastern states and between 4.0 and 5.0 for western states. Sprinkler demand
can increase the factor to 6.0. All these factors apply to the average annual daily demand.
   In practice the peak hourly demand does not affect the sizing of the smaller distribution
mains which are usually at least 100 mm diameter in UK, and 150 mm diameter in USA to
34    Public water supply requirement and its measurement

                       4.0     ,   ..




                       3.0                ~~


                 o
                 ~
                tt--



                 o


                O.


                        1.0 ....

                                        Entirely          Mainly                        Industrial,
                                        residential       residential                   residential
                                                                                        and rural

                                               I         1                 I                 ,1
                             0""             500 1000   500010000       50000 100l~00    500000 1000000
                                                         Population supplied

Fig. 1.5   Ratio of peak hourly flow to annual average flow inan undertaking (Adams, JIWE, 1955).


meet fire demand. The larger, principal feeder mains, and those supplying an outlying area
may have to be sized according to the peak hourly demand. However, a diversity factor
applies, i.e. the peak hourly flow factor reduces as the size of the population served
increases.



References
     1. Department of Environment. Water Resources and Supply: Agenda for Action, 1996,
        Annex C, pp. 62-63.
     2. Featherstone J. Conservation in the Delaware River Basin, JA WWA, Jan. 1996, pp.
        42-51.
     3. McIntosh A. C. and Yniguez C. E. (eds). Second Water Utilities Data Book: Asian
        and Pacific Region. Asian Development Bank, Manila, Oct. 1997.
     4. Unvala S. P. Bombay Water Supply. IWSA Congress 1995. Water Supply, 14,
        Nos 3/4.
     5. Vickers A. Implementing the US Energy Policy Act. JA WWA, Jan. 1996, pp. 18, 20,
        112.
     6. Babcock T. M. Water Resources Specialist, City of Phoenix Water Services Dept.
        Letter and data, 1997.
     7. Metropolitan Water District of Southern California. Report on Urban Use
        Characteristics. April 1993, pp. 8, 10, 11.
     8. AQUACRAFT Inc. and AWWA Research Foundation. The Municipal End Uses of
        Water Study, 1996-99. (Funded by AWWA and 12 participating municipalities.)
                                                                     References 35

  , Weeks C. R. and Mahon T. A. A Comparison of Urban Water Use in Australia and
    US. JA WWA, April 1973, p. 232.
10. Russac D. V. A., Rushton K. R. and Simpson R. J. Insights in Domestic Demand
    From a Metering Trial. JA WWA, June 1991, pp. 342-351.
11. OFWAT. 1998-99 Report on Leakage and Water Efficiency.
12. UK 1991 Census. Key Statistics for Local Authorities, Table 8. pp. 141-155.
13. Water Services Association. Waterfacts '97, p. 63.
14. World Health Organization. Public Standposts for Developing Countries, Bulletin
    No. 11. WHO International Reference Centre, The Hague, May 1978.
15. Binnie-Taylor. Report on Egyptian Provincial Water Supplies, Oct. 1979.
16. Welton R. J. and Goodwin S. J. The Accuracy of Small Revenue Meters, Report TR
    221, WRc, 1984.
17. Hall M. Technological Developments in Metering, IWEM Symposium 'Paying for
    Water', Jan 1992. JIWEM, Aug. 1992, p. 517.
18. Smith A. The Reduction of Leakage Following Water Metering on the Isle of Wight,
    IWEM Symposium 'Paying for Water', Jan. 1992. JIWEM, Aug. 1992, p. 516.
19. Scott J. W. Private communication, Jan 1991.
20. WRc, Waste Control and Leak Detection in Water Distribution Systems, WRc
    regional meeting, Autumn 1978.
21. Managing Leakage, Report F p.7 and Report G p. 28. WRc, Water Services Assn and
    Water Cos. Assn, 1994.
22. Skard B. C. Methods of Diagnosis and Performance Indicators for Rehabilitation
    Policies. Proceedings IWSA Congress 1995. Water Supply Review Jnl, 14, No. 3/4,
    1996, pp. 351-355.
23. Maddaus W. O. The Effectiveness Of Residential Water Conservation Measures.
    JA WWA, March 1987, p. 52.
24. Geering F. and Lohner E. Design for Continuity and Reliability in Distribution
    Systems. Water Supply Review Jnl, 14, No. 3/4, 1996, p. 78.
25. Water Services Assn. Water Metering Trials: Final Report, 1993, p. 4.
26. Roberts. K. F. Requirements for Trial Programme. Proc WRc Seminar on Water
    Metering, April 1986.
27. Water Services Assn. Water Metering Trials." Final Report, 1993, p. 67.
28. OFWAT. 1998 Annual Report of the Director General of Water Services, June 1999,
    Stationery Office, London.
29. United Nations, Methods of Population Projections by Sex and Age. 1956.
30. Howarth M. Minimum Need for Water when Available Resources Fail. IWSA Rev
    Jnl, 2, No. 2, 1984, p. 191.
31. Edwards A. M. C. and Johnston N. Water and Wastewater Minimization: the Aire
    and Calder Project. JCIWEM, Aug 1996, pp. 227-234.
                                             2
          The orga nisation a nd
       fi na nci ng of pu bl ic water
                   supplies

2.1       The control of public water supplies
Every government or state is forced to exercise some overall control over public water
supply because piped water and waterborne sewerage are the two universally essential
requirements for urbanised and city life. Four special features of water supply determine
how much control the state must exercise over it:
9     the water supplied must be free of contaminants injurious to health and be palatable;
9     all citizens should have access to it;
9     the service is nearly always a monopoly;
9     the development of public water supplies entails the use of large amounts of capital.
The first two requirements reflect the basic public health nature of public water supply.
The water has to be free of contaminants that could cause the spread of disease or injure
health, it has to be palatable so that people use it, and it has to be available to all people in
a community to prevent unsafe supplies being used which could bring disease into the
community. In many countries the supply to the lowest income groups is therefore given
free, usually by standpipe. To ensure a safe supply many countries adopt the water quality
standards recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO); but limited financial
resources may prevent individual undertakings achieving full compliance with every
standard. In the richer countries extensive national water quality standards are set which
are legally enforceable, and systems of inspection may be used to ensure they are achieved.
   The monopoly characteristic of piped water supply forces most governments to control
the charges made for it, so that all people can afford a supply. Where domestic supplies are
metered or charged according to the value or size of a dwelling, a government can limit the
charge made for a basic water allowance sufficient for all householders, sometimes below
the cost of production. In the latter case, trade and large household consumers may have
to pay more to make the undertaking financially self-sufficient, or the government itself
may have to deficit fund the undertaking.
   Water supply systems are 'capital intensive', i.e. the cost of developing a new supply is
usually too large to be met from the income received from current consumers, so the
money for it has to be borrowed. Reservoirs, dams, treatment works and bulk supply
mains, have to be sized large enough to cater for future rising water demand. Hence it is
                     2.2 The approach to privatisation of water in England and Wales    37


reasonable to borrow money for such works, repaying it gradually from rising sales of
water. Raising the necessary capital is one of the key problems facing governments. If a
country is rich enough the government may lend money from its own funds. Alternatively
a government can apply to an international lending agency such as the World Bank or
Asian Development Bank for a loan, or take a loan from another country under 'tied aid'.
Alternatively a water undertaking may be permitted to borrow money directly from the
'money market', i.e. from commercial sources of money; but the amount so borrowed may
have to be controlled to ensure the total 'public sector borrowing' does not exceed the
government's need to maintain its own financial stability. If, however, a government
allows water to be supplied by commercial companies, the companies are like any other
commercial concerns and can borrow from the money market without being constrained
by the government's public sector borrowing limits.
   Hence public water supply, however it may be provided, always comes under some form
of government control. In most developed countries the government's controls are set out
in Acts and Regulations. Additionally in countries belonging to the European
Community, EC Directives have to be complied with. However, in many of the less
developed countries the government's control may extend only to the publishing of water
quality standards which should be achieved, and to controlling the expenditure of
undertakings and their charges to consumers. In such circumstances water undertakings
have to work within the expenditure limits set for them annually, and may only be able to
meet the published targets for water quality and levels of service to the extent that the
permitted expenditure allows.


2.2     The approach to privatisation of water in England and Wales
Prior to 1973 there were 198 separate water supply undertakings in England and Wales
owned by 64 municipal authorities, 101 joint boards, and 33 statutory water companies. 1
The water companies were 'statutory' because each was authorised to be set up by a
private Act of Parliament. By regulation, the maximum profits the statutory companies
were allowed to make was limited to 10% on their share capital.
   There were also 29 River Authorities which controlled abstractions of water from rivers
and lakes by means of a licensing system. The River Authorities also licensed the discharge
of effluents to rivers, controlled navigation on rivers, and promoted land drainage, flood
protection, fishing, and sea defences. There were, however, some 1300 sewage works
owned by municipalities and other smaller local government bodies which discharged their
effluents to watercourses, many of these effluents being of poor quality through lack of
expenditure on sewage treatment works.
   With the growing demand for water it became evident there was a need to control all
sewage and other wastewater discharges to rivers and streams and all abstractions of
water, on a whole river-catchment basis. Consequently the 1973 Water Act transferred all
the River Authorities in England and Wales, together with all the water undertakings
(except the statutory water companies), together with all the sewerage functions of the
municipal and other authorities, to 10 new regional Water Authorities covering England
and Wales. Each new Water Authority covered one or more whole river basin catchments,
so that it became possible to plan water abstractions, towns' sewage and industrial
wastewater discharges to make the best use of available water resources and to preserve
the hydrological environment for environmental and recreational purposes. This radical
38   The organisation and financing of public water supplies

restructuring of water, sewerage and water controls by government was along the lines
that the water industry had suggested was necessary. 2
   The 10 new Water Authorities faced considerable expenditure on improving sewage
effluents and therefore needed to raise funds for this purpose, but by the early 1980s the
government was also faced with inflation problems and was consequently reluctant to
allow the new Water Authorities to increase their borrowings and charges to consumers to
finance the necessary improvements. As a short-term measure the government modified
the quality conditions for Water Authorities' sewage works effluent discharges and
postponed provisions of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 which otherwise would have
revealed increasing pollution of rivers. 3 Nevertheless capital expenditure by the Water
Authorities nearly doubled in the period 1975-85. But an even larger financial worry for
the UK government was that much more money was needed by the Water Authorities to
meet new EC Directives stipulating the quality of bathing waters, conditions for disposal
of dangerous wastes to the environment, and new quality standards for drinking water.
Facing these financial problems it occurred to government ministers in 1985 that one way
to ease the difficulty of increased government funding was to privatise the Water
Authorities so they could tap the commercial money market to raise the additional capital
required.
   'Privatisation' of the Water Authorities meant changing them from publicly owned
bodies to commercial companies owned by shareholders. Capital raising by these
companies to improve water and sewerage standards would not then come under the
government's restraints on public sector borrowing. Also the new companies would then
be responsible for raising charges to consumers, relieving the government of direct
responsibility for this unpopular duty. A 'one-off' advantage to government was that
selling the water undertakings to shareholders, would bring in money to the Treasury.
However the main arguments put forward by the government for privatisation were that it
could not find the capital money needed to improve water and sewerage services, and also
that the profit-motive of the new companies should tend to make them more efficient than
public bodies. There was some criticism that the first argument was invalid, since both
private and public funding made the same demand on the country's economic resources,
and the Authorities could have been permitted to raise more foreign loans as they had
been allowed to in the past. 4 The government also admitted that the publicly owned Water
Authorities could not be criticised as inefficient.
   Government ministers first considered transfering the Water Authorities with all their
 functions to new companies; but it was quickly pointed out that commercial companies
 could not be given powers to license abstractions and discharges, and to undertake
 pollution prevention, flood control, and coastal protection, etc. because these were public
 control measures. This and a number of other problems were resolved as follows.
9    Only water and sewerage services would be transferred to the new companies.
9    The balance of the work - planning of water resources development, licensing
     abstractions and discharges, pollution control, inland navigation, amenity protection,
     flood protection, land drainage and coastal defences, e t c . - would be taken over by a
     new public body, the 'National Rivers Authority' (NRA).
 9   The water and sewerage service companies would need to come under strict financial
     control to satisfy the public that they were giving proper service at a justifiable cost.
     This control would have to be exercised by a 'Director General of Water Services'
     responsible to government.
                                                 2.3 General provisions of privatisation 39

9     If the companies were to provide only water and sewerage at prices limited by the
      Director General, their potentiality for profit might be insufficient to attract many
      purchasers of their shares; there was no opportunity to expand water services because
      99% of the population were already on a public water supply and 96% were
      connected to a sewer. 5 The issue of shares might therefore fail. The companies needed
      freedom to undertake other commercial activities which offered the prospect of better
      profits to shareholders. To unravel this predicament, water and sewerage work would
      have to be undertaken by 'Water Service Companies' which would be subsidiary to
      and wholly owned by 'holding companies' which would be public limited companies
      (plcs) free to undertake other commercial activities. It would therefore be the plc
      shares which would be put on the market, and only their subsidiary Water Service
      Companies would come under the Director General's control.
9     To make shares in the plcs more attractive, much of the long-term debt still owed by
      the Water Authorities would be written off by government.
9     The existing statutory Water Companies, supplying water only, would remain, but
      would be allowed to set up a plc holding company if they wished.


2.3       General provisions of privatisation
The consequent arrangements under the Water Act 1989 are shown in Figs 2.1 and 2.2.
Later four Consolidation Acts were passed in substitution of the complex 1989 Act. These


                                                                  Water-only companies
                                                              1 Bournemouth and W.Hants plc
                                                              2 Bristol Water plc
                                                              3 Cambridge Water plc
                                                              4 Cholderton and District Water
                                                                Co. plc
                                                              5 Dee Valley Water plc
                                                              6 Essex and Suffolk Water plc
                                                              7 Folkstone and Dover Water
                                                                Services plc
                                                              8 Hartlepool Water plc
                                                              9 Mid Kent Water plc
                                                             10 North Surrey Water plc
                                                             11 Portsmouth Water plc
                                                             12 South East Water plc
                                                             13 South Staffordshire Water plc
                                                             14 Sutton and E. Surrey Water plc
                                                             15 Tendring Hundred Water plc
                                                             16 Three Valleys Water plc
                                                             17 York Waterworks plc




Fig. 2.1 The ten water and sewerage companies and 17 water-only companies in England and
Wales in 1999.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     f-
                   I                                                                                           ]
                   : European requirements ;                                                                           Department of                  Welsh               Ministry of agriculture
                                                                                                                      the environment                 office                                              Pesticide control
                   i                                                                                           i
                                                                                                                                                                           food and fisheries
                   i   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   i
                                                                                                                                                                                                            agricultural
                                                                                                                                                                                                          waste disposal


                                                 Owners/
                                               shareholders
                                                                                                                                                 I                    I                                           I
                                                                                                                          Director    i      Drinking I         Environment                                    Local
                                                                                                                        general of            water                                                         government
                                                                                                                                                                  agency


                                                                                                                     J,'                  j,'                  J,'
                                                                                                                       water services      inspectorate                                                      authorities

                                     Group holding
                                   companies - PLCs
                                                                                                                                                                                    HM Inspectorate
                                                                                                                             I                   I                   I                of pollution
                                                                                                                             I                   I                   I
                                                                                                                         Control of         Checking             Licensing                   I
                                                                                                                      company charges      compliance           abstractions        Industrial effluent     Solid waste
                                                                                                                                                                                         control              disposal
                                           1/                                                                  ...       Levels of
                                                                                                                          service
                                                                                                                                            with water
                                                                                                                                              quality
                                                                                                                                                                 Licensing
                                                                                                                                                                discharges             Dangerous           Contaminated
                         Water                                                             Water and !                   Customer           standards            Prevention            substances               land
                         supply
                       companies
                                                                                            sewage I
                                                                                           companies I
                                                                                                                         protection              I              of pollution             control             regulation
                                                                                                                                           Advising on                                     Air
                                           !
       Other                                                                                                         Company efficiency                        Water resource
      trading                                                                                                           Fair trading        analytical            planning              pollution
    companies                                                                                                                               methods
                                                                                                                       Market testing                          Water quality
                               17 No.                                                              10 No.                Customer                I               monitoring
                               (1999)                                                              (1999)                 service          Investigating         Fisheries
                                                                                                                        committees            failures           protection
                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                           I                    I
                                                                                                                                                      Coastal               Land
                                                                                                                                                     protection           drainage
                                                                                                                                                       Inland               Flood
                                                                                                                                                     navigation           protection
Fig. 2.2   Organizations involved in water supply, England and Wales 1999.
                                                 2.3 General provisions of privatisation   41


Consolidation Acts repeated all past legislation still in force so that previous Acts need no
longer be consulted. The four Acts were as follows.
9   The Water Industry Act 1991 set up the new plcs and their subsidiary Water Service
    Companies, transferring to the latter the water and sewerage functions of the previous
    Water Authorities, and also set up the Director General of Water Services defining his
    powers to control the Water Service Companies.
9   The Water Resources Act 1991 set out the functions of the new National Rivers
    Authority (NRA).
9   The Statutory Water Companies Act 1991 applied specifically to the statutory (Water-
    only) Companies keeping them in being.
9   The Land Drainage Act 1991 transferred the functions of previous internal land
    drainage boards and the land drainage powers of local authorities to the NRA.
The 1989 Act resulted in three types of water service companies whose numbers in 1999
are as follows.
(1) Ten Water Service Companies providing sewerage services for the whole of England
    and Wales and water supplies in those areas not supplied by the Water-only
    Companies; each owned by a public limited company (plc).
(2) Eleven 'Water-only Service Companies' (former statutory Water Companies)
    providing water supplies in certain areas, who have chosen to set up plc holding
    company.
(3) Six 'Water-only Service Companies' (former statutory Water Companies) providing
    water supplies in certain areas, but who had not chosen (by 1999) to set up a plc
    holding company.
The powers of the Director General relate only to the Water and Sewerage Service
Companies or Water-only Service Companies, whose work is said to be 'the core business'
of the plcs where these have been set up. (Both types are referred to as the 'Water Service
Companies'.) The main provisions of the Water Industry Act 1991 in respect of the Water
Service Companies are as follows.
(1) The DoE Secretary of State can issue Water Quality Regulations which set the quality
    standards required for drinking water.
(2) A Drinking Water Inspectorate under the Secretary of State monitors and reports on
    the water quality achieved by the Water Service Companies.
(3) A plc cannot sell its 'core business' of water and sewerage, or water-only, nor alter its
    area of supply without the permission of the Secretary of State. The Director General
    can advise whether he thinks such permission should, or should not be granted; or if
    he thinks the core business should be taken over by others.
(4) The Director General monitors the quality of the services given to customers by the
    Water Service Companies and can direct their improvement where he thinks this
    necessary.
(5) The Director General controls the charges made to consumers by the Water Service
    Companies. These charges cannot be increased over a 5-year period by more than a
    percentage expressed a s - 'the current rate of inflation + K' known as 'the K-factor'.
    Where K is positive, this represents sufficient additional income, per 5-year period,
    which (in the Director General's estimation), is needed to meet additional approved
    expenditure to improve the core services. Where K is negative, this means the Director
42    The organisation and financ&g of public water.supplies

    General considers a company has already sufficient resources to meet its 5-year
    commitment without using the whole of the inflation allowance.
(6) The Director General has power to require the Water Services Companies to give him
    all information he requires to keep under review their performance in respect of their
    economy, efficiency of service to consumers, proper financing, adequacy of service
    and fair treatment of consumers.



2.4      Experience with water privatisation in England and Wales
Released from Treasury constraints on borrowing, the new companies were able to finance
and therefore progress with a number of much-needed improvement works. The higher
cost of market borrowing than use of government loans was not of any particular
significance because the subsidies on interest rates on government loans through the Public
Works Loan Board were in any case being gradually withdrawn. 6
   The plc holding companies had, however, some initial difficulties in pursuing other
commercial ventures successfully. ? They were in the strange position of being companies
set up before they had decided what to do. Some bought, or set up, commercial ventures,
but later sold them. Some made heavy losses on diversification into other lines of activity. 8
This could reflect the hybrid nature of privatisation; running the plc commercial
enterprises requires business experience and entrepreneurship; whereas providing water
and sewerage on a 24-hour basis is a primarily a technical service of a routine kind.
   There were problems of 'cross-funding'. Many plcs transferred the water engineering
design staffs, laboratory staffs and laboratories they took over into separate subsidiary
companies. They used these companies, and other equipment supply companies they had
purchased, to supply their Water Service Company with services or goods. The Director
General decided that supply of such services or goods by plc-owned companies to the core
business of water and sewerage must be market tested by competitive bidding to ensure a
competitive market price was paid for them, 9 and a plc must not favour a bidder because
he or she intended to sub-contract work to a plc-owned company. The Director General
also found expenditure on new capital works was, in some cases, substantially less than a
plc had forecasted and on which the Director had based his 'K values' controlling the
Water Service Companies' charges. 1~ Some of this shortfall was due to new works not
proceeding as fast as had been forecasted, but it also raised a doubt as to whether the
reduced expenditure was due to improved efficiency or to the plc's forecasted expenditure
being unnecessarily high. Where large savings appeared to have been made on the
estimates, the Director persuaded all but one of the plcs to give rebates to customers or to
limit the increase of their charges to less than the K percentage he had previously
authorised.
   Privatisation also changed the public perception of water supply. Many consumers now
tend to regard it as a profit-making commercial enterprise and consequently are critical of
any restrictions on use (especially for garden watering) when this is forced on an
undertaking by an exceptionally dry period. This has meant that water companies have
 had to work more closely to source-failure risks regarded as acceptable by the Director
 General (see Section 3.15), and have pursued a policy of increased metering of domestic
 supplies in some areas which will inevitably increase domestic charges for water (see
 Section 1.19).
                                                          2.5 The Environment Agency      43


   Privatisation has worked successfully, but accompanying it there has been a need for
strict regulation and external monitoring. This has not proved easy to apply because of the
difficulties associated with establishing measures of efficiency, ensuring fair allocation of
costs and checking that services are paid for at market-tested prices. Monitoring has
become necessary of the terms under which plc subsidiary companies provide services to
the core business, and to check how far a plc's core business is used to provide support to
the other subsidiary companies it owns. The Director General has required that, where
directors or managers of a Water Service Company also hold directorship of another plc
subsidiary company, procedures must be followed which make clear such directors or
managers can have no influence on transactions between the two. Where multi-utility
companies have been formed, such as those providing both water and electricity, so that
common services are possible, there will be more complicated problems in ensuring such
transactions are fair to both water and electricity consumers. ~ The take-over of a number
of the plcs by large foreign firms who own many other companies providing goods and
services for the water industry will add to problems of monitoring. Inevitably privatisation
has meant that more controls have had to be applied to public water services than were
necessary when these services were publicly owned.


2.5      The Environment Agency
The Environment Agency was set up under the Environment Act 1995 in order to achieve
a more co-ordinated approach to the use of fresh water and to protect the environment
against various forms of pollution. It took over the work of the National Rivers Authority
(NRA) which had been set up when privatisation took place (see Section 2.3).
Consequently the former functions of the NRA now exercised by the Environment
Agency in England and Wales include:
9     the licensing of water abstractions and wastewater discharges;
9     the development and management of water resources;
9     monitoring and controlling pollution of water resources;
9     protecting any surface or underground waters from which water undertakers are
      authorised to take water;
9     promoting environmental and recreational benefits of water;
9     flood protection, land drainage and coastal defences;
9     fisheries protection and control of inland navigation.
The management of water resources is the most important of the Agency's duties in
relation to water supply. There are many conflicting demands for fresh water. A difficulty
inherited from earlier 1963 legislation when the River Authorities were set up, lies in the
continued existence of 'licences of right' which entitled abstractors of 1963 to take as much
as their plant could then abstract in 24 hours. This inhibited the Agency's ability to plan
best use of water resources because it has to pay compensation if the issue of anew licence
reduces the quantity available under an existing licence of right, even if the holder thereof
uses much-less-than hisentittement or perhaps takes no water at all because he has ceased
some business which used the water. However the Agency is endeavouring to overcome
this problem by negotiating reduction of licensed amounts.
   Although the Environment Authority issues abstraction licences, this has made no
difference to the procedure which has to be followed when a Water Service Company
44    The organ&ation and financ&g of public water supplies


requires a new source of supply. The company must, of course, take account of the
Environment Agency's views as to whether or not it would be willing to issue a licence for
the proposed new abstraction, but the company still has to apply to the DoE Secretary of
State for a Ministerial Order sanctioning the construction of new sourceworks. A public
inquiry has then to be held at which objectors to the proposed sourceworks can state their
case. If the proposed Order is objected to in Parliament, it has to go to a Parliamentary
Committee which hears the objections again and makes recommendations to Parliament
which can decide whether or not to approve the Order. If objection to an Order in
Parliament is thought to be likely, the company may decide to promote a Bill instead of an
Order, because the Bill goes straight to a Parliamentary Committee for examination which
saves a certain amount of time. In either case it takes at least a year to get through the
procedure.
  Another major role of the Environment Agency is that of monitoring the quality of
surface waters, and taking remedial action against pollution. Under the Water Resources
Act 1991 the DoE Secretary of State can set 'Water Quality Objectives' for surface waters
taking into account the uses to which a surface water is put. He can issue Regulations for
the control of dangerous substances, and for procedures to be adopted by people holding
poisonous or polluting materials. By means of Orders he can designate 'water protection
zones' for safeguarding underground supplies, restricting activities within them. The role
of the Environment Agency is to see such objectives are met. In practice the Agency takes
the lead on many matters, developing proposals to put to the DoE for approval.



2.6      Other pollution control measures
The Drinking Water Inspectorate (DWI) plays a key role in England and Wales in
ensuring that water supplied by all the companies complies strictly and continuously with
the many quality requirements described in Section 6. The role of the DWI is not only that
of monitoring company performance but also in giving guidance on the best techniques
available for ensuring the use of reliable quality monitoring procedures and for advising
where new or improved techniques need to be adopted to deal with new or unresolved
problems of pollution. However the DWI is primarily concerned with ensuring that
unacceptable pollution does not pass into public water supplies; the control of sources of
pollution is exercised by other authorities.
    The principal legislation dealing with prevention of environmental pollution generally
is:
 9    the Control of Pollution Act 1974 (under which inter alia, HM Inspectorate of
      Pollution was first set up);
 9    the Environmental Protection Act 1990 (which widened the scope of the 1974 Act);
 9    the Environment Act 1995 (which set up the Environment Agency and further widened
      the scope of previous Acts).
Wastewater discharges, including both industrial and sewage effluents, are controlled by
the Environment Agency which can refuse a licence for an effluent which does not meet its
conditions. It can prosecute polluters and carry out works to remove or mitigate pollution,
recovering the cost from those liable. It has to keep registers, open to inspection by the
public, of discharge consents given, water quality objectives set, and sampling results.
                                                   2.6 Other pollution control measures    45


   'Point source' agricultural pollution can occur from slurries, silage effluents, yard
washings and vegetable processing wastes. These all have high BODs (Biological Oxygen
Demands), silage effluents exceptionally so, and the slurries and yard washings have a high
ammonia content as well. Guidance to farmers, and grants, are available through the
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries (MAFF) which published a 'Code of Good
Agricultural Practice for the Protection of Water' in 1991. The legal requirements on
farmers are set out in the Control of Pollution (Silage, Slurry and Agricultural Fuel Oil)
Regulations 1991.12 Many treatment methods have been tried on farm wastes, but the
simplest of them is to store slurries and sludge drainage for 9-12 months in open ponds,
after which they can be sprinkled evenly over grassland in the right weather conditions,
avoiding any direct runoff to a watercourse. 13
   'Diffuse pollution' of the environment occurs from the use of pesticides (including
herbicides, etc.) and therefore control has to be applied to the usage. Not all such pollution
comes from farming. Increasing detection of the presence of the herbicides atrazine and
simazine in groundwater was attributed mainly to their use by road and rail authorities.
Dealing with the many types of pesticides and herbicides used is a complex matter, as
illustrated by the fact that M A F F lists about 400 approved compounds. Some compounds
have been banned, including DDT, aldrin, dieldrin and chlordane. An added complication
is that farmers rotate the use of different pesticides from year to year to avoid build-up of
resistance; this increases the difficulty of monitoring for such contaminants.
   The DoE Secretary of State has designated 'nitrate sensitive areas' within which, in co-
operation with MAFF, farmers are assisted to adopt practices designed to limit, and
possibly reduce, the amount of nitrates found in water. A Directive of the EC in December
199114 made a similar policy mandatory on member states, stipulating the need to identify
'vulnerable zones' where underground or surface waters used for drinking would contain
more than 50 mg/litre nitrate if no protective action were taken. Among the practices
required by the EC Directive are measures to prohibit the application of nitrogenous
fertilisers during certain periods of the year, and to limit the application of nitrogenous
fertilisers and manures.
   As part of the Environment Agency, HM Inspectorate of Pollution deal more especially
with controlling the discharge of industrial wastes (solid, liquid, and gaseous) including
trade wastes discharged to public sewers. EC Directives 15 set limits for the discharge of
certain dangerous substances to the aquatic environment. In response, the UK DoE
produced an initial 'Red-List' of 23 substances ranking for priority control, to which
further substances are being considered for later inclusion. Except for the metals mercury
and cadmium, all the Red-List substances are organic compounds, mostly pesticides and
herbicides, although some are particular wastes from industry. Two quality standards
have to be applied to the discharge of such substances to surface waters:
9   the application of an 'environmental quality standard' (EQS); or
9   the application of'best available technology not entailing excessive cost' (BATNEEC)
    - sometimes alternatively denoted as a 'uniform emission standard' (UES);
9   whichever is the more stringent.
An EQS is set by estimating the effect the discharge of a substance has on the
environment, so this involves research and monitoring of such discharges by the
Environment Agency, followed by the setting of an appropriate EQS by the DoE. The
BATNEEC standard or UES involves HM Inspectorate of Pollution approaching an
46    The organ&ation and financ&g of public water supplies

industrialist producing or discharging a Red-List substance in order to assess what process
should be applied to the substance to render it suitable for discharge and setting limits for
the amount discharged. Obviously co-ordination between the two different procedures
must take place to ensure the most stringent requirement is applied. HM Inspectorate also
have to deal with radioactive wastes under the Radioactive Substances Act 1993.
   Solid waste disposal sites are the responsibility of the County Council Waste Regulation
Authorities. ~6 Before licensing a site the Authority must obtain agreement of the
Environment Agency and of any water undertaking likely to be affected. Compliance with
EC Directive 80/6817 ('Protection of groundwater against pollution caused by certain
dangerous substances') is required, which prohibits certain substances from waste disposal
sites entering groundwater, and limits the amount allowable for others. The substances
prohibited a r e - cadmium, cyanides, mercury; mineral oils and hydrocarbons;
organohalogen, organophosphorous and organotin compounds; and those possessing
carcinogenic, mutagenic or teratogenic properties. Substances which must be limited
(although no limit criteria are stated) include the inorganic substances normally limited in
drinking water supplies, e.g. arsenic, chromium, etc. (see Table 6.1(B), Section 6.47) plus
biocides, taste or odour producing substances, and toxic compounds of silica.
   Contaminated land has to be identified and registered by the local authorities who must
then inform the owner and the Environment Agency. The local authority can require the
owner to carry out remediation of the land, or can undertake remediation itself, charging
the cost to the owner. If, however, the Environment Agency decides the land is a 'special
site', it takes over responsibility for enforcing or undertaking the necessary remediation
measures. A 'special site' as defined by the DoE Secretary of State DoE is one which
would or might cause serious harm, or serious pollution of controlled waters.


2.7      Organisation of public water supplies in Scotland and
         Northern Ireland
In Scotland there are now only three regional Water Authorities which provide water and
sewerage services: North, East, and West Scotland Water Authorities. They were set up in
1996 under the Local Government (Scotland) Act 1994 which reorganised Scottish local
authorities into single tier Unitary Authorities. Prior to this there had been 12 regional
Water Authorities which had taken over some 200 water supply and 230 sewerage
undertakings owned by local authorities or joint boards. The three new Water Authorities
have the additional duty of promoting conservation and effective use of water resources, a
duty previously held only by the Secretary of State for Scotland. ~8 They also have powers
to seek private finance for capital investment projects, in line with the UK government's
Private Finance Initiative.
   Under the Environment Act 1995, a Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA)
took over the work of the previous 10 River Purification Authorities (RPAs) which had
been set up under the Rivers (Prevention of Pollution)(Scotland) Act 1951. These RPAs
had been responsible for authorising effluent discharges, and for monitoring their quality
and that of the receiving waters. With their early start the RPAs had been successful in
maintaining the quality of Scottish rivers. However, they did not have general powers to
license abstractions, mainly because of Scotland's liberal availability of water supplies in
relation to demand. They could control irrigation abstractions for commercial,
agricultural and horticultural use under the National Heritage (Scotland) Act 1991, and
                              2.9 Functions of the US Environmental Protection Agency      47


could apply to the Secretary of State for a control order permitting them to control
abstractions from a specific length of river. But only one such order was ever issued
because of the lengthy procedure involved. Although the Scottish EPA has the same
limited powers for controlling abstractions that the RPAs had, it is expected to have the
ability to extend control order systems to cover all abstractions above a certain amount. 19
   In Northern Ireland, water and sewerage services formerly run by the local authorities
and joint boards, were taken over by the Northern Ireland Department of Development
under the Water & Sewerage Services (NI) Order 1973. But in 1996 the work was
transferred to the Northern Ireland Water Service, which acted as a separate government
Agency under the Department of the Environment in Northern Ireland. Its headquarters
in Belfast carries out overall control and planning, and so on, while fo~_~r Divisions
perform the day-to-day operational functions. The intention was that ultimately the four
Divisions would be privatised, but the change has not yet come about. Control of
pollution and effluent discharges comes under the Environment & Heritage Service of the
DoE (NI), as set out in the Water (Northern Ireland) Act 1972. DoE consent has to be
obtained for all effluent discharges to inland and coastal waters and for the discharge of
material at sea.


2.8       Public water supplies in USA
Public water supplies in the USA are characterised by the many small supply systems that
exist as shown in Table 2.1. The majority of small systems are privately owned; the larger
systems are predominantly municipal and publicly owned. The physical isolation of many
small communities in a large country is partly a cause of this fragmentation, but an
additional factor according to Okun 2~ is that developers have often preferred to site new
residential communities outside the limits of major urban areas where land is cheaper and
property taxes lower, and consequently have installed individual small water supply
systems in preference to connecting the community to the nearest existing large system.

Table   2.1 Number of water utilities in USA in mid-199321

USEPA                    Population                 No. of water           Total population
designation              served                     utilities              served (million)
Very small                   25-500                 36 515 (62%)             5.569 (2%)
Small                       501-3300                14 516 (25%)            20.053 (8%)
Medium                     3301-10 000                4251 (7%)             24.729 (10%)
Large                    10 001-100 000               3062 (5%)             85.035 (35%)
Very large               over 100 000                  326 (1%)            109.797 (45%)
Total                                               58 670                 245.183




2.9       Functions of the US Environmental Protection Agency
The US Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) sets drinking water quality standards
under the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) 1996. It can issue Regulations stipulating:
48   The organisation and financing of public water supplies

     an MCLG (maximum contaminant level guide) which is not mandatory;
     an MCL (maximum contaminant level) which is mandatory;
     a 'Treatment Rule' which is mandatory and which sets out the type(s) of water
     treatment to be adopted where an MCL is not appropriate or sufficient, e.g. for
     protection against bacteriological contamination, Cryptosporidium and Giardia (see
     Sections 6.57), and for minimising the incidence of disinfection by-products.
An 'MCLG' is defined under the 1996 Act as 'a level at which no known or anticipated
adverse effect on human health occurs and that allows for an adequate margin of safety'.
An 'MCL' is defined as 'a level as close to the MCLG as feasible'. 'Feasible' is defined as
'practicable according to current treatment technology, provided no adverse effect is
caused on other treatment processes used to meet other water quality standards'. 22 Under
the previous Safe Drinking Water Acts of 1974 and 1986, the USEPA had issued
Regulations covering some 85 organic or inorganic substances, and 16 others covering
radionuclides and microbial levels. When issuing such standards the USEPA had not been
required to assess the cost to water utilities of implementing a regulation nor to estimate
the health benefits a regulation would achieve. This gave rise to widespread criticism that
relative risks, costs, and benefits had not been taken into account when setting standards,
thereby imposing some costs on public water suppliers which could not be justified in
relation to the incidence of such contaminants and the numbers of individuals at risk.
   Under the 1996 Act the USEPA is now required to support any proposed new
Regulation by publishing a report on:
9    the risk the contaminant presents to human health;
9    the estimated occurrence of the contaminant in public supplies;
9    the population groups and numbers of people estimated to be affected by the
     contaminant;
9    the benefits of reduced risks to health the proposed Regulation should achieve;
9    the estimated costs to water utilities of implementing the Regulation;
9    estimated changes to costs and benefits of incremental changes to the MCL value
     proposed;
9    the range of uncertainties applying to the above evaluations.
The USEPA has to publish and keep updated every 5 years a list of contaminants likely to
require regulation, choosing at least five of them to Regulate every 5 years, giving priority
to those posing the gre.atest health risk first. A period of 18-27 months for public comment
and USEPA's consultation with certain authorities must be allowed before a proposed
Regulation containing an MCL is promulgated, i.e. formally put into operation.
   To follow these new procedures USEPA had first to collect country-wide data revealing
the incidence of various types of contaminants in public water supplies and the
effectiveness of current treatment processes in reducing such contaminants to required
levels. All systems supplying 100 000 population or more were required to submit detailed
reports on the results of 18-24 month comprehensive sampling programmes, with lesser
sampling programmes being required by smaller systems serving upwards of 10 000
population. Also to help small water systems serving 10 000 population or less, the 1996
Act required USEPA to provide a list of treatment systems that would assist these small
systems achieve the required quality standards. USEPA must also provide small systems
with 'variances' which permit the adoption of treatment processes that will achieve nearest
compliance with an MCL, taking into consideration a system's resources and the quality
                                      2.10 Private sector participation in water supply   49


of its source water. Government funds made available to States are to be used to assist in
training waterworks operators to standards set by the USEPA. The funds are also
intended to help these small systems obtain technical assistance with water quality
compliance problems and source protection.
   The radical changes made by the 1996 SDWA should achieve a more realistic approach
to establishing the setting of water quality standards, and make it more practicable for
utilities to comply with them. But the performance of the many small undertakings may
continue to present a weakness, unless they can be provided with sufficient day-to-day
technical and laboratory assistance to ensure they achieve compliance with the many
sophisticated drinking water standards in force. The evaluation procedures the USEPA
must undertake to support any proposed new Regulation are complex and are likely to
raise problems of interpretation and differences of approach concerning the methods to be
adopted which may need clarification and agreement.


2.10    Private sector participation in water supply
Since the later 1980s there has been increasing interest in involving the private (i.e.
commercial) sector in providing some or all of the activities required to provide a public
water supply. While the public sector must always retain ultimate control because water
supply is an essential service and also a monopoly, the advantages of private sector
participation are:
9   commercial funds for capital and improvement works are easier to obtain than
    government or state funds;
9   specialised technical and managerial skills can be brought in to benefit a water
    undertaking;
9   improved efficiencies of service can be obtained by setting them as contractual
    obligations on a private company.
Private companies have, of course, always been used by publicly owned water
undertakings to provide such services as the design and construction of new works,
repair of burst mains, analysis of water samples and so on. But a wider variety of
contractual arrangements for private sector inputs have now been developed and used
successfully. The two main classes of private sector input are 'build contracts' which cover
the development o f new infrastructure, and 'operational agreements' which aim to
improve the efficiency of one or more water supply operations by putting them for a
period under the direction of a private company. In general, the greater the responsibilities
undertaken by a private company, the longer is the period of contract.
   A type of build contract which has been developed for the design and construction of
new works, such as new source works or treatment works, is the 'build, own, operate, and
transfer' (BOOT) contract. A private company backed by a bank or some other financial
institution, or perhaps using some bi-lateral loan provided by its government, finances and
builds some new works, operates them for a term of years, and transfers them to the public
water authority at the end of the contract. With private finance the duration of such
contracts is often 20 years or more. The water authority repays the cost of the works over
the contract period or as otherwise defined, and pays for the operation of the works on
some time-related or works output basis. A 'build, operate, transfer' (BOT) contract is
very similar, but is usually used to cover the case where the contractor does not provide
50   The organisation and financing of public water supplies

funds to construct the works, being paid for the works as they are constructed, then
operating them for a given period before transferring ownership to the water undertaking.
   Operational agreements are now the main type of private sector participation methods
adopted. They comprise a private company taking over or controlling for a period some or
all of the operational activities of a water undertaking. Often they involve both the public
and private sectors working closely together under a 'public-private partnership'
arrangement, with risks allocated and shared in some agreed manner. The principal
types of operational agreements which can be distinguished are as follows.
   Contracting out. A private organisation takes responsibility for a specific package of
work for a fixed duration, such as meter reading; or billing and revenue collection; or
operation of a water treatment plant. The responsibility of the private company is limited
to its contracted task.
   Management Contract. A private company contracts to provide a service to improve
certain water supply operations for a fixed fee, or a fee partly based on achievement in
meeting some specified performance target, such as reduction of leakage, betterment of
service levels to consumers, etc. The management contractor has to work closely with the
water authority, advising and directing its staff in the use of new or improved techniques
to gain the end-result desired. The contractor does not take on any significant risks or
responsibility save that of ensuring the provision of the quality of managerial and
technical staff that he or she has contracted to supply and they are effective in achieving
the objective of the contract. The water authority retains responsibility for executing the
operations necessary including their necessary funding. The duration of such contracts is
normally only a few years and variety of different arrangements are possible.
   Leasing (or affermage). Under leasing a private company takes over all, or some of a
water authority's operations for a fee, or for a full or part share of the income collected
from consumers. Specific targets to be achieved by the operation taken over will usually be
set. Leasing does not necessarily involve the lessee, i.e. the private company, in providing
large finance for the construction or improvement of capital works, because the
government or state may find that it can get better capital financing terms from
international or bilateral funding agencies, who may provide 'soft' loans and grants.
Compared with a management contractor, however, the lessee is more directly responsible
for management and technical aspects, needs a larger financial input to cover his or her
day-to-day working capital, and bears more financial risk. On the other hand, if the lessee
takes a share of the undertaking's income, there are greater opportunities for profit
through adoption of improved efficiencies. Duration of leasing agreements is normally
 10-15 years.
   In many French cities, mainly for the operation of treatment works, leasing (termed
'Affermage') has been widely used for many years for fixed periods. One of the reasons for
this approach is that, whereas in the whole of the UK there are only 31 suppliers of public
water (27 in England; three in Scotland; one in Northern Ireland), France has over 3000
separate water undertakings. Likewise Germany has 1500, and Spain 8000. 23 Hence the
use of large firms able to provide a wide range of specialised technical services involved in
water treatment, is an advantage where many small undertakings exist with limited
 technical resources.
    Concession. Under a concessionary agreement a private company takes over full
responsibility for a whole system, including planning and funding all capital works needed
for rehabilitation and expansion of the system, taking on most risks in return for receiving
                                       2.10 Private sector participation in water supply   51


all, or part of the total income generated from water sales and other charges. This
motivates the private company to use its expertise to develop the system in the most
efficient manner in order to maximise its income. The duration of such agreements is
normally 20-30 years.
   All types of private sector input contracts need to be robust, and the longer term
contracts need to provide for adjustment to meet future conditions that cannot be foreseen
sufficiently accurately to be fair to the undertaking's consumers and the private company.
For instance, the capital works programme may have to change to meet a different growth
of water demand from that expected, and tariffs may need to be adjusted for inflation.
Some of the most important matters which contracts have to cover are as follows.
9   The source of funds and the terms of their repayment have to be defined.
9   Detailed targets for achievement have to be set, such as standards of water quality,
    development of a new source for a given output, distribution performance, levels of
    service to consumers, and measures of efficiency for operations taken over.
9   The contractor's reimbursement has to be defined. Under most contracts an
    independent regulator or regulatory body sets water tariffs to consumers, or tariffs
    can be fixed through a competitive bidding process; but if the contractor is to be
    reimbursed partly or wholly from tariff income there may need to be provisions
    assuring the contractor of some minimum rate of return on his or her financial outlay.
9   The question of staffing has to be decided. The water authority's staff will expect their
    employment to continue under the private contractor, but the contractor may not find
    it possible to take on all staff because of the obligation to achieve greater efficiency.
    Negotiations have to take place to solve this problem.
9   The allocation of risks is a key issue to be clarified. Too many risks placed on the
    contractor mean that the price must be increased substantially. Too few risks on the
    contractor can reduce the motivation to improve the services taken over.
There are some disbenefits to public sector participation. There may be a social cost if
some water authority staff have their employment terminated. If the contract is
undertaken by an international contractor, more offshore currency expenditure may fall
on the government if the contractor requires a proportion of the charges to be paid in this
way. The problem for poor countries is that of funding the contractor and any
improvement works necessary, before the improved supplies or greater efficiency make it
possible for the undertaking to gain an increased income through more sales of water or
the raising of tariffs. Drawing up a contract is a complex matter on which it is essential to
take experienced advice. It may take up to 2 years to produce a contract, evaluate bids
received, and negotiate a contract, and bidding costs for contractors are high. As a result
there may be a tendency for contractors to favour only the less onerous and less risky
contracts which offer the best opportunity for a return on their expenditure. When the
contract starts, the water authority will need to set up an efficient regulatory body, able to
check all aspects of the contractor's work to the end of the contract and negotiate any
financial adjustments necessary. In addition it may be advisable for government to
establish a framework setting out procedures which must be followed when letting
contracts of a major kind to the private sector, in order to ensure that all such transactions
are properly carried out.
   With the availability of public funds for improvement of water services inevitably
limited by the many other demands made on the public sector, private sector participation
52    The organisation and financing of public water supplies

with its access to commercial funds is a potential alternative world-wide. The details of
how this is best achieved are evolving rapidly as experience is gained in many countries.


2.11          Organisation of a water undertaking
The typical organisation of a large public water supply undertaking is similar to that
shown in Figure 2.3. Smaller undertakings may merge some departments; the very large
ones may set up regional offices whose organisation replicates the head office organisation
on a reduced scale. Sometimes in the large organisations there may be a separate
'Resource Planning' or 'New Works' department, and also a 'Records Department'. If the
undertaking has a large pumping and mechanical plant there may be a separate 'Electrical
and Mechanical Engineering Department'. A 'Training Department' is essential in the
larger undertakings because it can make a major contribution to the efficiency of the
undertaking.
   From long experience there is a need to centre the day-to-day responsibility for
maintaining the quality and sufficiency of the supply upon one person. This is usually the
Chief Engineer, as advised by the Chief Scientist. The smaller undertakings often have a
combined 'Engineer and Manager' in charge. The larger undertakings may have an
'Operations Manager' in charge of the Distribution and Supplies Departments, who
reports to the Chief Engineer. In this key position, the Chief Engineer or Chief of


                                                     Manager
                                                            i
         I
       Chief                              Chief
                                              .                                            !
                                                                                    Chief Financial
                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                Chief
     Scientist                          Engiieer                                       Officer               Admini,,~trator
                                                       ,L       ~l                         I
 _       1                 ,                                                    I                  I
 i Laboratories [ Distribution          Supplies            Planning     Accountant's          Treasurer's
      Dept.     l   Dept.                Dept.               Dept.          Dept.                 Dept.

          1
       Water            Trunk
                                             1
                                      Sourceworks
                                                                     i          I
                                                                           Budgeting           Customer
                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                           Staffing
                                                       Data
       quality          mains          operation    collection             Expenditure            billing  & offices
     monitoring        Service         Treatment    Resource                 control             Income    Support
     Treatment        reservoirs        Pumping      planning                Costing            collection services
       control        Distribution      E.&M.*      New works               Payments           Agreements Training*
      Pollution          mains          services    Contracts                                   Auditing *   Public
     monitoring         Waste           Reservoir     control                                               relations
        Mains         detection        maintainance Records                                                  Legal *
     disinfection       Supply
                       metering
                       Service
                        laying

     Services marked * often form separate departments.
     Stores and stockyards will come under Distribution Dept. (for pipes etc.) and Supplies Dept. (for chemicals,
     spares, etc); replacements being ordered through the Accountant's Dept. and stock usage being checked
     by the Audit Section.
Fig. 2.3 A typical division of functions in a moderately sized water undertaking.
                                                2.13 Charging for public water supplies 53

Operations has to decide what is to be done in an emergency, such as when a source fails; a
major burst occurs; or there is evidence of contaminated supplies.
   The large modernised water undertaking will normally have a central control room,
manned 24 hours a day, into which out-station conditions are reported on instruments.
The data flowing into this control station will show the outputs of sources, what plant they
have running and what is available on standby, water levels in service reservoirs, records of
flow in some key mains, and some key distribution pressures. Into this control room will
also come warnings from the fire service of the whereabouts of fires, or of major road
accidents that might involve discharge of chemicals that could endanger the quality of any
source. Arrangements are usually also made for messages from the public to flow into this
control room because the public are often the first to notice signs of a burst main. Rotas
have to be established whereby key personnel, such as valve operators familiar with
sections of the distribution system and mobile repair gangs, are on standby to carry out
any night-time emergency work required.
   A key part in maintaining a good service to consumers is played by the local engineer,
technician, or 'inspector' in charge of a distribution area. This local manager is responsible
for managing a limited area of the distribution system and becomes familiar both with its
detailed layout and the consumers in the area. The local knowledge so obtained is
invaluable in operating valves when burst mains or fires occur, in detecting signs of waste
and in reporting defects in the distribution system. Local distribution managers are the
water undertaking's employees who most frequently makes direct contact with consumers,
hence they can monitor and report back any difficulties that consumers are experiencing.


2.12    Staffing levels
Many factors affect levels of staffing in a water undertaking. Those using surface supplies
which require treatment will need more staff than those using underground supplies, since
treatment works usually have to be staffed 'around the clock' and more staff will also be
required for maintaining buildings, dams or intakes, and catchment grounds. Borehole
supplies often require little treatment and can be operated by automatic or semi-automatic
control. A multiplicity of supplies involves more staffing than when a single major source
gives the principal supply.
   Some selected figures of staff employed per 1000 connections are given in Table 2.2. In
England it is the larger water companies or those supplying compact urban areas who can
achieve 1.0-1.1 employees per 1000 water connections. The smaller English water
companies or those who have to supply extensive rural areas utilise 1.4-1.5 employees per
1000 connections. Overseas water undertakings have much higher ratios of staff per 1000
connections in most cases because of the low cost of labour and consequent use of manual
processes for many operations, and the need to use more staff on income collection from
metered domestic consumers who are required to pay in cash monthly.


2.13    Charging for public water supplies
Water supplies often have to be given free or below cost to those on very low       incomes.
Most standpipe supplies in low income countries are given free. The consequent      financial
loss has to be made good either by the water supplier charging other consumers      more, or
by the state or government meeting the deficit. Even in the U K the extension       of water
54   The organ&ation and financing of public water supplies


Table 2.2   Some selected figures of waterworks staffing

                              Staff per      No. of
                              1000           connections   No. of
                              connections    x 103         staff     Notes
England."
Water-only Companies
1995/96 (av. 18 companies)     1.16          4731            5486
1996/97 (av. 18 companies)     I. 14         4695            5353
1997/98 (av. 17 companies)     1.12          4791            5376
Overseas:
Selected undertakings                                                Work put out to private sector
1995 or 1996
Kuala Lumper, M~.laysia        1.12           157                  Prodn
Taipei, Taiwan                 1.14          1289             1465 B & C + leak repairs
Johor Bahru, Malaysia          1.2            223                    Prodn + leak repairs
Selangor State, Malaysia       1.4            932             1322 Prodn
Singapore                     2.0             910             1865 B & C
Seoul, Korea                  2.3            1873            4332    Meter reading
Chonburi, Thailand            2.6              47                    Prodn
Hong Kong                     2.8            2100             5830
Johore State, Indonesia       2.9             534             1544
Chiangmai, Thailand           2.9              35
Penang State, Malaysia        4.0             263             1058
Penang Island, Malaysia       4.4             133
Bangkok, Thailand             4.6            1241             5736 Prodn
Thai Provincial W.A.          5.5            1195             6547
Lahore, Pakistan              5.7             372             2106
Jakarta, Indonesia            5.9             362             2131 B & C
Shanghai, China               6.0            1828           11 060

Notes.
Prodn = operation of sourceworks. B & C = billing and income collection.
Data sources: England- 'Waterfacts' '96, '97 and '98.
Overseas- Mclntosh C.A. and Yniguez C.E. (eds) Second Water Utilities Data Book; Asian and
Pacific Region, Asian Development Bank, Manila.
(Other cities in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, etc. frequently show 15-25 staff per 1000 connections.)



mains to rural areas had to be funded by government or local government through a series
of Rural Water Supply Acts in the 1940-60s because the cost of the long water mains
required for rural dwellers did not give an economic return for the water undertakings and
was too expensive for rural dwellers to finance.
  Where domestic supplies are unmetered, it is common practice, as in UK, to apply a
charge related to the value of a householder's dwelling, on the basis that most low-income
householders occupy low-value property. Where domestic supplies are metered, a basic
                                                                      2.13 Charging for public water supplies 55

quantity can be allowed for each household (per charge period) at a rate sufficiently low
for the low-income householders to meet. Neither system is perfect since there are some
low-income householders who occupy a large property because of a large family size and,
with metering, the lowest rate of charge has to cover an amount sufficient for a large
family, which gives the single occupant a liberal supply at the cheapest rate. However, any
system for charging according to the number of occupants or household income is
impracticable.
   When fixed charges according to property value apply, it is relatively simple for the
water undertaking to set the charges at a level which will provide a required income
because the number of properties in each valuation range can be known. But if all supplies
are metered, the setting of an appropriate tariff to produce a given income has to take the
elasticity of the demand into account (see Section 1.19). This is particularly important
because the margin of an undertaking's annual income over expenditure to pay loan
charges and to provide a profit, may be heavily dependent on the amount of water sold at
the higher rates of charge. A graph of the percentage of households taking less than a
given amount needs to be produced, as shown in Figure 2.4. The area under this graph
represents the quantity of water (per 100 households) in each charge band. Assuming the
elasticity of demand for the lowest band is -0.3, and 31.5 m3/day is taken within that
band by every 100 consumers when the price is s             then the amount taken when the



                        2.2                                                               2.2m3/d
                                                                                             max.      ~
                        2'1 f

                        1.1 -               ~,                       Quantity supplied at -]rT-
                                             I                       charge rate per 100~ Ii I
                        1.0 -            Chargerate                          households " ~ 1               5.6
                 13            -          s                                                                 ma/d
                 %
                 v
                        0.9!
                 13
                  r     0.8    .....         _;_ . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                  r
                  o 0.7 -                      I
                  e-
                  L
                                        Chargerate                                          _~11 I
                                         s          3                                      oo'~L_ ,~L3.~
                  ca" 0.6 -                    Z                                          #//7-r~/d    -~

                  E 0.5-...... . . . .       _;_ . . . . . . .
                  ::3
                  03                           I                                'q
                  t-

                 o
                  O     0.4 -           Chargerate                     . o\6~'~ /              '~ti~
                                         s                        ,~,b~,~.                     o,.,J

                        0.3

                        0.2    -               I/                    "Effect 0f 10%
                                                                      price increase if
                        0.1 _ ~                                    elasticity of demand
                                   f                                         is - 0 . 5
                        0.0 -           I  I            I    I    I      I    I              i _ I
                                       10%                       50%                                   100%
                                                        Percentage of households

Fig. 2.4 Cumulative frequency graph of household consumptions.
56   The organisation and financing o f public water supplies


price is raised by 10% to s          3 is given by:
        Reduced volume t a k e n - 31.5    x [(0.50)/(0.55)]   0.3 --~   30.6 m 3
Assuming the other band prices are increased by 10% and the elasticities are - 0 . 6 for the
middle band and - 0 . 9 for the upper band, it can be shown that raising the tariffs by 10%
only increases the total income from every 100 domestic consumers by 5.3%. The income
from metered supplies to trade and industrial consumers under an increased tariff has
likewise to be computed taking an appropriate value for the elasticity of their demands.


2.14    Financing of capital works
A water undertaking usually borrows money to finance construction of major new capital
works, because the cost of such works is too large to meet from current income and can
reasonably be spread over future consumers who will benefit from the works. Loan
repayments are typically 10-15 years for plant and machinery; 20-30 years for buildings;
and 50-60 years for dams and land. Routine capital works expenditure on extension of
mains can normally be met from current income. Three methods of loan repayment are
possible- capital plus interest: annuity; and sinking fund. If a loan of s is repayable in n
years at r% interest rate (where r is expressed as a decimal) the annual amounts payable
under the three different methods are as follows.

                        Annual payment
Capital plus interest   X/n + r interest on the loan balance outstanding at the start of each year
Annuity                 Xr(1 + r)"/[(1 + r) - 1]"
Sinking fund            Xr/[(1 + r) - 1]n to sinking fund + Xr interest on loan.

  The annuity repayment method is most usual. The capital plus interest method results in
reducing yearly payments. The second and third are equivalent if the interest received on
the sinking fund is the same as that charged on the loan.
  Public water authorities may be able to borrow from government, from an international
lending agency, or may be authorised to borrow from the money market. Private
companies usually borrow from the money market. In theory they can also raise more
money by offering further shares for sale on the market if their full share capital has not
been issued; but this would rarely be adopted for new works. Of course if an undertaking
has an excess of income over expenditure, part of the excess can be set aside to build up a
fund to finance, or partly finance, new capital works. If a variety of capital projects have
to be funded, a separate loan may not be raised for each. Instead short-term borrowing
from current funds or from the bank may be adopted to fund the capital outlay, until the
time is considered appropriate for raising a single long-term loan. Much depends on
interest rates prevailing and whether these are expected to move up or down in the future.
Clearly if interest rates are extremely high, there can be hopes they will later fall, so that
postponing the raising of a large long-term loan could be advantageous, even if current
short-term borrowing is costly. But things do not always work out as expected.
                                     2.16 Cost comparison of proposed capital projects     57


2.15     Depreciation and asset management planning
'Depreciation' is an accountancy term for the practice of writing down the initial cost of an
asset annually. The amount an asset is depreciated is debited against income, so the
equivalent amount of money (in cash or securities) is set aside and allocated to a
depreciation fund. This fund is used later to meet the cost of renewing the asset when it
becomes worn out. Depreciation has been defined as representing 'the consumption of
assets by current users thereof'. The amount of the depreciation depends on accountancy
practice. The depreciation must, in the first instance, be sufficient to write off the whole
cost of the asset before it has to be replaced. But the replacement cost may be higher due to
inflation, or because a better quality replacement is required. This has to be allowed for in
the amount of the depreciation. Also tax considerations may influence the depreciation. In
the UK a 25% initial depreciation of plant and machinery is allowed against tax,
thereafter 10% of the reducing balance. An accountant may therefore wish to benefit from
the large initial tax allowance.
   An 'asset management plan' consists of assessing the condition of each asset, and
estimating the length of its remaining life, how much it will cost to maintain and ultimately
replace. The process has to be applied to all assets of a water u n d e r t a k i n g - the
distribution system, sourceworks, treatment works, pumps and machinery, etc. For a large
undertaking this is a large task, and systems for simplifying it may need to be developed.
Usually a long-term plan for asset renewal for 20 years or so ahead is developed, and a 5-
year rolling programme of renewals is produced in more detail with estimates of the year-
by-year expenditure involved. The longer term plan is necessary because worn-out assets
are seldom replaced by identical ones. Old mains may be renewed in larger size or by a
differently routed main in order to cater for increased future demands. Newer standards of
water quality may make it necessary to replace old treatment plant by different or more
extensive plant. Older equipment needs to be replaced by more efficient or more
sophisticated apparatus. Thus asset management planning has to based on a technical plan
for the future development of the undertaking, and estimated costs have to be updated at
intervals.
   Some assets, such as dams and large trunk mains, last so long, 60-100 years or more,
that their loan cost has long since been written off. Hence no 'value' for them may appear
in the books, so depreciation is not applicable. Valuation of such assets is only necessary in
the rare and unlikely event of the undertaking being sold. On the other hand such assets
present a liability because, in due course, a dam may need extensive repairs and water
mains cannot last indefinitely. Hence, it is prudent to build up a 'contingency fund' to
meet possible repair or renewal costs. This is particularly important in the case of water
mains, in order to avoid getting into the position of finding it necessary to replace a large
number of mains of a certain age simultaneously at some future. This could pose a large
unexpected financial burden on an undertaking. Hence depreciation, contingency funds,
and part of maintenance expenditure, are all financial measures with the same aim of
making timely provision for the cost of preserving and renewing assets.



2.16    Cost comparison of proposed capital projects
Discounting to compare present values of projects. If proposed projects differ in phasing of
capital expenditure and running costs, etc. they can be compared by 'discounting' their
58   The organisation and financing of public water supplies

costs to obtain the 'total present value' cost of each project. This allows the timing of
expenditure to be taken into account. The present value, P, of s due to be paid in n years'
time is taken as P = s         + r)n, where r is the discount rate expressed as a decimal. (This
is the inverse of compound interest calculation, i.e. P invested at r% compound interest
accumulates to s in n years' time.) To compare projects, the costs have to be for the same
year-by-year water outputs for the same p e r i o d - usually 20, 25 or 30 years. The estimated
capital expenditure and works renewal costs, plus the running costs, for each year are
estimated and discounted* to give the equivalent present value cost and the total is
summed for the chosen period. The project having the lowest total present value is the
cheapest at the chosen rate of discount. Usually projects are compared over a range of
discount values; 8, 10 and 12% being commonly used. The higher the discount rate, the
smaller are the 'present values' of future costs. Hence high discount rates tend to favour
schemes which can be built in stages, or which have cheaper initial capital outlay despite
having higher running costs (see Section 14.7).
   A government or lending agency may stipulate the discount rate to be used when
comparing proposed capital projects. This is a way of putting projects on a par basis with
respect to their demands for capital; it prevents one scheme using a disproportionate
amount of capital as compared with another. A discount rate fixed in this manner is said
to represent- 'the social opportunity cost of c a p i t a l ' - being used .to assess all capital
demands made on a government or fund for social improvement projects, such as housing,
roads, hospitals, etc. From time to time the UK government Treasury stipulates the rate of
discount to be used when public sector schemes are put forward for funding.
   Inflation of prices is not usually taken into account when discounting, on the assumption
that if inflation occurs it affects all prices proportionately. History, however, shows
otherwise. As standards of living have increased, labour costs have inflated more than
material prices due to increased productivity of machines. Fuel oil prices doubled in 1973,
then fell back, then rose again later. Hence foreseeable differences of inflation need to be
allowed f o r - if foreseeing them with any reliability is possible.
   Shadow pricing of costs is sometimes adopted when market prices do not represent true
costs. Thus, if unemployment is high, the shadow price for labour is the wage paid
(including oncosts) less the cost to society of that person when unemployed (e.g. the
unemployment pay, etc.) Taxes are excluded from shadow prices because they represent
only a transfer of money from one section of society to another. Where the unofficial
exchange rate for offshore currency in the market is higher than the official exchange rate,
the shadow price for purchase of offshore goods may need to be based on the unofficial
 rate because this represents the real cost of offshore purchases. Such shadow pricing has
 the benefit of showing in a more favourable light schemes which use more local labour or
 more inshore goods than another, which is an advantage to the country in which the
 project is to be built. However, carried to extremes, shadow pricing is complex, because
 each item price has to be broken down into its component parts, e.g. labour, fuel, plant,



*A useful additional formula for obtaining the present value P of a regular sum s paid annually for
n years at r% discount is
         P= s      + r)" - 1
                r(1 + r)"
                                               2.17 Other aspects of project assessment     59


materials, further broken down into offshore and onshore elements, and taxes, and so on,
before a shadow price for each item can be estimated. Consequently shadow pricing tends
to be adopted only when a funding agency requires it, and the agency may stipulate that
only a few major items, such as labour, should be shadow priced.


2.17    Other aspects of project assessment
The internal rate of return (IRR) is another way of comparing projects. In this case the
'value' of 'the outputs' has to be assessed. The IRR on the project is then defined as:
   the discount rate at which the value of the outputs from a project for a term of years
   equals the value of the costs of the project for the same term of years.
   The international funding agencies and the World Bank often require a project to show
not less than 10% IRR before they rank it for funding.
   The weakness of the internal rate of return approach is the difficulty of setting 'a value'
for the outputs of water when a public water supply serves so many purposes, e.g. health,
comfort, recreation, trade, industry, food production, and so on. The tariff charges made
to consumers cannot be used as a 'value' because they only reflect the money return
required (after paying running expenses and any profit) which equals the interest rates
charged on capital monies. Hence the 'value' put on the water output is bound to be
somewhat arbitrary, such as, say, a cost per cubic metre for domestic supplies which would
'normally' be charged or which represents, say, 1% or maybe 2% of average family
household income; and a cost for trade and industry supplies might be judged from the
elasticity of their demand. The funding or loan agency can, of course, stipulate what
'value' is to be placed on the water output.
   A private water company, it should be noted, does not need to 'value' its water output
because it is not a funding agency. A funding agency or government which has a limited
amount of funds for social benefit schemes, must endeavour to apply its funds to best
effect, so it must assess and compare the benefits given by its funding of various schemes.
A commercial company is only concerned with the cost of borrowing and the need to set
consequent charges sufficient to give a satisfactory rate of return on its share capital. The
Director General of Water Services in UK has stated that the cost of equity capital for the
Water Service Companies in England and Wales 'might be 6-7% in real terms allowing for
inflation, business taxes and cost of debt finance in the range 3-5% in real terms'.
   Full social cost-benefit analysis (SCBA) of projects gives rise to many subtle (and at
times confusing) differences of view. Merrett 24 considers that using a 'social time-rate of
discount' (STRD) to evaluate cost and benefits is reasonable since it reflects human
appreciation that a benefit now has more certainty than one in the future, but it must not
be too high. He suggests 3% is appropriate because it does not devalue a future cost or
benefit too rapidly, taking 23 years to reduce a value by half. The much higher discount
rates of 8-12% used to express the 'opportunity cost of capital' he considers are only
appropriate for comparing the cost of alternative schemes under 'social cost-effectiveness
analysis' (SCEA) procedures. They are inappropriate for SCBA analyses because they
'ignore the huge importance of environmental and distributional effects in decision
making'. In effect he distinguishes between assessing projects purely on financial cost, and
the very different matter of assessing the benefits and disbenefits of a project (in terms of
social improvement, health, enjoyment, etc. versus environmental losses, etc.) some which
60   The organisation and financing of public water supplies

should not be devalued by discounting to negligible amounts in a short period of years
because they are costs paid, or benefits enjoyed, in perpetuity.
   To the extent that monetary values can be put on environmental gains and losses they
can be included in a SCBA of a project. For instance, what people will pay for fishing
rights, or for a visit to a nature reserve or open country, including their travel costs, can
act as a crude monetary evaluation of an environmental benefit. This can put a useful
comparative measure on at least a few of the many other considerations that have to be the
subject of an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). An SBCA is an economic
assessment taken as far as it is reasonably possible to attribute monetary values to
outcomes; an EIA deals with other matters not expressible in economic terms. Both are
only aids to decision making which may have to be taken on entirely different grounds,
such as political expediency, public reaction, etc.




2.18 Short- and long-term marginal costing
When an undertaking has spare capacity at its source works, it can meet additional
demand at little extra cost. Over 90% of a water undertaking's costs are fixed, being loan
repayments for works and the operational costs involved in the day-to-day running of a
system which supplies water to tens of thousands of premises. Less than 10% of the cost
varies with the amount of water sent out by the source works. But if new major works have
to be built, the cost of the supply rises sharply because the loan repayments on the new
works have to be met even though the immediate rise in consumption is small. To avoid
this sudden rise in charges, 'long-term marginal costing' can be used, under which account
is taken of the cost of the next stage (or stages) of capital expenditure required. This means
that, before the new source works are actually required, consumers pay more than current
costs, so money is saved which can be set aside to partially or even wholly fund the cost of
the new works. Price rises are thus smoothed out, and the early increase in charges may
induce metered customers to curb their demand. This may postpone the date when the new
works will be required.
    How much current consumers should be asked to pay for works that benefit future
consumers is a debatable point; but often current consumers themselves benefit from
w o r k s still standing and productive but long since paid for by previous consumers.
Arguments about the monetary value to be put on paid-off assets still in use are only
relevant in the relatively rare case when a water undertaking is put up for sale. However, a
much more important point is that an undertaking should not become so heavily debt
burdened by long-period loans, that it finds itself in a financial difficulty if new,
unexpected heavy financial commitments come upon it. This situation occurred in
 England, where many new schemes had been built in the 1960s and 1970s to meet a swiftly
 rising demand for water. As a consequence the water authorities were already burdened
 with many long-term loans when new demands came upon them in the 1980s to meet new
 standards of water quality as well as improved sewage effluents. Hence, when the
 Government decided to privatise the water authorities in the 1980s, it wrote off s      billion
 of the long-standing debt of the water authorities 25 because it feared the size of the debts
 might not make the authorities sufficiently attractive financially to make their sale to the
 private sector a success.
                                                                             References    61


2.19      Typical prices charged for water
Average household bills for water 1997/1998 were as follows.

                                     Unmetered median (range)        Metered median (range)
                                     per annum                       per annum
England and Wales
Water service companies (10)         s    (s                         s (s
Water-only companies (17)            s    (s                         s (s
Scotland                             s   (s                          not applicable



    Tariffs for metered domestic supplies in England and Wales averaged s             3 (range
s             plus a standing charge in most cases of s per annum.


References
        Evans H. R. The Structure and Management of the British Water Industry 1945-91.
        Yearbook 1993, IWEM.
      . IWE. Evidence to the Central Advisory Water Committee. Feb. 1970.
     3. Kinnersley D. Troubled Water. Hilary Shipman, London, 1988, pp. 122-123.
     4. Hill S. W. Taking Stock." Privatization of Water Services. Private publication. June
        1989, pp. 16-17.
      . Water Cos. Assn. Waterfacts '92, p. 52.
     6. Henley D. et al. Public Sector Accounting and Financial Control, Chapman & Hall,
        1993, p. 122.
      ~ Isack F. Money Down the Drain, Construction News, 31 Aug. 1995, pp. 16-17.
     8. cf. Construction News 1 Dec. 1994, and New Civil Engineer, 1 Dec. 1994, p. 7, and 9
        Feb. 1995, p. 6.
     9. Director General of Water Services, Report for the Period 1996/97, p. 42.
    10. Director General of Water Services, Report for the Period 1996/97, pp. 32-34.
    11. Director General of Water Services, Report for the Period 1996/97, p. 43.
    12. Statutory Instrument No. 324, 1991.
    13. Barker P. Agricultural Pollution Control and Abatement in the Upper Thames
        Region. JIWEM, June 1991, pp. 318-325.
    14. EC Directive 91/676.
    15. EC Directive 76/464 and Directive 86/280, with additional substances listed in EC
        Directives 88/347 and 90/415. [UK Regulations in response were Statutory
        Instruments 2286 (1989); 337 (1992) and 2560 (1997).]
    16. DoE regulations 1994, under Part II of the Environmental Protection Act 1990, in
        response to EC Directive 75/442 and in accordance with DoE Circular 11/94.
    17. EC Directive 80/68.
    18. Anderson P. Demands and Resources for Public Water Supplies in Scotland from
        1991 to 2016. JCIWEM, June 1997, pp. 164-169.
    19. Adeloye A. J. and Lowe J. M. Surface Water Abstraction Controls in Scotland.
        JCIWEM, April 1996, pp. 123-129.
62   The organisation and financing of public water supplies

 20. Okun D. A. Addressing the Problems of Small Water Systems, IWSA Conf
     Proceedings 1995, Special Subject 9, pp. 439-442. Also MacDonald J. A. et al.
     Improving Service to Small Communities. JA WWA, Jan. 1997, pp. 58-64.
 21. AWWA Small Systems Research Committee, Research Needs for Small Systems: A
     Survey. JAWWA, Jan. 1997, pp. 101-113.
 22. Pontius F. W. Future Directions in Water Quality Regulations. JA WWA, March
     1997, pp. 40-48.
 23. Report on Proceedings of Conference on 'Supply and Demand: a Fragile Balance'.
     JCIWEM, Aug. 1996, p. 298.
 24. Merrett D. Introduction to the Economics of Water Resources, University College
     London Press, London, 1997, p. 92.
 25. Kinnersley D. Coming Clean." The Politics of Water and the Environment. Penguin
     Books, Harmondsworth, 1994, p. 78.
                                             3
           Hyd rology a nd su rface
                   supp
                                                   |




Part i Hydrological considerations
3.1       Introduction
When a new water supply is required to meet anticipated increased demand it is common
practice to undertake an assessment of the water resources of the region, to consider all
possible sources of supply and then to define an appropriate development plan. The range
of development possibilities are as follows.
   Surface water s o u r c e s - (a) direct supply from an impounding reservoir or lake,
supplemented if necessary by gravity feed from an adjacent catchment or pumped inflow
from another source; (b) abstraction from a river or canal, supplemented if necessary by
releases from a storage reservoir; (c) collection of rainfall runoff from the roofs of
buildings or bare catchments and feeding to storage tanks.
   Ground water sources- (a) springs, wells, and boreholes; (b) adits and collecting galleries
driven underground; (c) extraction of ground water by riverside wells or sub-surface
extraction wells sunk in the bed of a river course or 'wadi'; (d) using ground water
extraction to supplement abstraction from rivers or reservoirs; (e) use of artificial recharge
of aquifers.
   Water reclamation schemes- (a) desalination of brackish water or seawater; (b) re-use of
acceptable wastewater discharges by appropriate treatment; (c) demineralisation or other
treatment of a minewater, including blending with a freshwater supply.
   Other types of schemes- (a) integrated (conjunctive) use of surface water, ground water,
or water reclamation schemes according to availability; (b) obtaining a bulk supply from
some other water authority.
   An assessment of the hydrology of a catchment is necessary to ensure that any proposed
additional abstraction will not detract from the rights of other water users or cause
unacceptable harm to the environment. For this purpose a 'water balance survey' of the
catchment is often desirable. This quantifies for a given water year of average or minimum
rainfall:
9     rainfall on catchment less losses from evaporation, transpiration, and natural surface
      runoffs (i.e. after correcting for abstractions and discharges);
9     resultant percolation to underground:
      plus inflow less outflow through underground water boundaries;
64    Hydrology and surface supplies

      less abstractions from wells and boreholes;
       + / - change in soil moisture content, underground water storage and water in
      transition zone;
      balance remaining- water unaccounted for.
Theoretically if all inflows and outflows have been accounted for, a balance of zero will be
obtained. But if the calculations have been conducted monthly the balance remaining will
tend to be positive for wet periods and negative for dry periods because of time lag effects.
However these should largely cancel out over a full year. The balance achieved is largely
dependent upon adequate local hydrological data being available; if not, values have to be
estimated from relationships derived from catchments elsewhere with similar character-
istics. But once a reasonably satisfactory balance has been achieved there can be assurance
that the hydrology of the catchment has been properly appraised.


3.2       C a t c h m e n t areas
The accurate definition of the catchment boundary is usually a prerequisite for the
assessment of a source. In theory the topographic catchment to a source is found by
examining a contour map, but in practice difficulties occur. Many parts of the world are
still unmapped at an adequate scale; even where maps exist, the contours on them may be
largely extrapolated or out of date because of subsequent constructional work. Personal
knowledge of a catchment is therefore important, and a visit to key sections of the topo-
graphic divide is desirable. When larger scale maps cannot be obtained, those at 500 000
scale by the USA Air Force in their 'World Tactical Pilotage' series (obtainable in UK
from the Director of Military Survey, Ministry of Defence or major mapsellers) are
recommended. Where possible an aerial survey followed by detailed photogrammetric
contouring is the best policy. Associated ground control survey checks will be essential as
well, but a rapid mapping programme measured in weeks rather than months can be
completed for a modest cost. Direct examination of stereo pairs of air photographs may
resolve some uncertainties. Large inaccessible basins can be examined from satellite
photographs, libraries of which are now available internationally. However the best
sources are those giving digital descriptions of terrain and rivers, now on CD-ROMs; the
most detailed global coverage is emerging from ESRI, Redlands, California, the major
American geographic information software company.
    Computer programs exist which will define a catchment boundary from any gridded
data set. That of the UK Institute of Hydrology operates on a 50  50 m digital terrain
model derived from 1:50 000 scale contours, 1 and has been used throughout the United
Kingdom to define the catchment boundaries to streamflow measurement stations. Such
programs can generate catchment boundaries quickly and objectively, but may require
manual adjustments in some cases, particularly in areas of low relief where the stream
drainage network is poorly defined.
    Once the catchment boundary has been located by defining the direction of downhill
 flow at right angles to the contour lines, one may come across water-courses marked on
maps that appear to cross the catchment divide. If not the top pound of a canal, this
watercourse may well be a contour leat. A leat is an open channel gravity-flow catchwater,
 often constructed to augment the flow into a reservoir or to bring water to a mill or mine.
 Leats may either collect all the drainage from land on their higher side, take only the flows
 of the major streams which are intercepted, or can be derelict and carry no flow in or out
                                                                     3.3 Data collection   65


the catchment. A survey is required to assess the condition of the leat and its capacity
relative to the local runoff as the leat may be sized to contain all but the largest floods or
may be so small that it is overtopped many times a year. 2
   The catchment to a ground water source is not readily defined, even where contoured
maps of the water table are available. In the majority of cases the water table contours
represent a scaled-down version of the surface topographic contours, but cases can occur
where ground water enters some distance outside the surface catchment limits. Natural
water table levels tend to rise and fall together in any one region but, particularly where
pumping abstraction is taking place, the ground water boundary divide may migrate
seasonally. This illustrates the fact that there is a continual balancing effect proceeding in
an aquifer between steady abstraction and intermittent replenishment. Satisfactory
confirmation of such conditions may require as many as one observation well per km 2
once away from flat terrain, a density which is rarely practicable except under research
funding.


3.3      Data collection
The collection, archiving and dissemination of hydrological data is expensive and is
usually a government funded activity. As governments try to limit public spending, data
acquisition budgets tend to be cut on the basis that the data does not produce immediate
or obvious benefits. But it has been demonstrated that the availability of reliable
hydrological data results in benefits an order of magnitude larger than the costs of
collection. 3 The need for more data is particularly important in countries where changing
climatic conditions are causing serious depletion of water supplies. In Nigeria, for
example, it was reported in 1998 that failure of a number of large scale resource
developments to achieve their forecasted output was partly due to the absence of accurate
data on rainfall and river flows. 4 If large capital sums are not to be wasted, the basic
hydrological data on which water schemes are designed must be adequate and reliable. But
where good hydrological data is available and subjected to experienced analysis, very large
savings can be made. On the Bhatsai water scheme for Bombay in the 1970s, a re-
assessment of the hydrological data based on the Tansa river flows showed a river
regulating scheme was possible, increasing the potential yield of the source from 1140 M1/
day for a direct supply scheme to 1800 M1/day and saving a large proportion of the cost of
a pipeline. 5
   Good hydrological data forms the fundamental basis on which water schemes need to
be devised. The first requirement is to check the validity of all basic data by ascertaining
how such data was produced, including the need to visit all flow measuring structures to
check their condition and probable degree of accuracy. If relevant data does not exist,
systems must be set up for acquiring it. Once data is obtained it must be carefully filed or
computer archived, so that it is permanently available for recomputing potential yield
when catchment or other conditions change.
   To assess a potential surface water source the prime need is for long streamflow records
which show the variations of flows with time, while for ground water sources, records of
changing aquifer water levels are most important. Nowadays many catchments are already
partially developed so that, in order to make full use of the available streamflow data, it is
necessary to distinguish between measured and natural river flow. In order to naturalise a
flow record (see Section 3.9), details are required of all abstractions, effluent returns and
66    Hydrology and surface supplies

reservoir storage changes within the catchment. Similarly in order to set recorded aquifer
levels in context, details should be kept of pumped output from wells together with
pumping and rest water levels.


3.4       Streamflow measurement
Riverflow or streamflow records taken in the vicinity of an existing or proposed intake or
dam site are an invaluable aid to the assessment of the potential yield of a source. In
general the longer the period of records the more reliable any yield estimates based on
them are likely to be, but even a very short record often provides a significant
improvement over estimates derived from generalised regional relationships.
   Flows are often obtained by measuring the 'stage level' of a river, i.e. the elevation at
some location of the water surface above an arbitrary zero datum. The majority of
streamflow records are obtained in this manner by converting continuous or regular stage
measurements to discharge by means of a rating curve. The simplest way to measure stage
level is by means of a permanent staff gauge set so that its zero is well below the lowest
possible flow. Although such gauges are simple and inexpensive they must be read
frequently when the water level is changing rapidly to define the shape of the streamflow
hydrograph. It is preferable to construct a stilling well to house a computer-compatible
solid state level recorder and a chart recorder with an unlimited natural level scale
operating from a float. The solid state level recorder has marked advantages in terms of
data processing but the chart record gives an important visual check of existing conditions
and can provide a backup record should the digital data from the solid state recorder
become corrupted.
   A rating curve for a site can be obtained in a variety of ways of which the two most
common are by means of velocity-area methods using a current meter, 6 or by means of
weirs or flumes which are mostly permanent structures. They include:
9     sharp edged plate weirs; 7
9     broad crested weirs; 8
9     triangular profile weirs; 9
9     critical depth flumes. ~~
Dilution gauging ~1 and ultrasonic gauging ~2 can also be used to help define the stage/
discharge relationship at sites where conditions are difficult for current meter
measurements, and also to check an existing rating curve. The choice of gauging
method depends on channel and streamflow characteristics, staff time availability and
cost.
   Current meter measurements are most often used when large flows have to be measured
and the available fall is small. They are also often desirable for smaller rivers with
sediment laden flows. Current meter gauging stations are relatively easy to set up in that
they often require little modification of the existing channel. Since each potential gauging
site is unique, each requires a careful pre-assessment of the width and depth of the channel,
likely flood velocities and alternative ways of current meter measurement. Whenever
possible current meter gauging stations should be located in straight uniform channel
reaches with relatively smooth banks and a stable bed. For many rivers it is difficult to
locate accessible sites with these characteristics and particular care must be taken to find a
site that will give satisfactory results.
                                                           3.4 Streamflow measurement      67


   Current meter measurements can be made by wading with a current meter attached to a
graduated wading rod to measure depth. Wading can usually be carried out safely when
water depths are about a metre or less and the maximum stream velocity is no more than
about 1 m/s. When wading is not practical, current meter observations may be carried out
by lowering a current meter, ballasted with a weight, from the deck of a bridge. A crane
may be necessary because heavy ballast may be needed if the current is strong.
Measurements are best carried out from single span bridges as the turbulence caused by
bridge piers can cause considerable errors. If no suitable bridge is available near the
gauging site it may be necessary to construct a cableway from which to suspend a current
meter and ballast weight, or to carry out measurements from a boat.
   At current meter stations discharge measurements are usually made by subdividing the
river cross-section into vertical sections. The mean velocity in each vertical section is
measured and applied to its area. The river discharge is computed from the sum of the
individual section values. The number and spacing of the verticals should be such that no
section accounts for more than 10% of the river flow. The velocity measurement points are
normally located by means of a tagged tape or wire stretched across the river or from
graduations painted on the deck of a bridge. Detailed observations for many different
types of river have shown that the mean velocity of a vertical can be closely approximated
from the mean of two observations made at 0.2 and 0.8 of the depth. If the water depth in
the vertical section is less than about 0.6 m, or if time is limited, then one observation at
0.6 of the depth will approximate to the average over the whole depth.
   The Water Resources Division of the United States Geological Survey has produced
some excellent publications on current meter gauging techniques 6 while standard practice
in the United Kingdom is contained in BS 3680 of which parts 3A, 3C, 3G and 3Q are
most relevant to the use of a current meter.
   Despite the relatively low capital cost of velocity-area stations, the need to make
sufficient current meter measurements over a wide range of river levels to establish the
station rating curve, followed by repeat measurements each time a major flood is thought
to have shifted the river bed profile, makes heavy demands on staff time. Also as a result
of the difficulty of getting to the gauging site at the time of peak flood flows and of
arranging for the necessary measurements by current meter, it may take a long time to
obtain a complete rating curve for a river section. The alternative of a standard gauging
structure, therefore, is often more attractive to the engineer, particularly so for catchments
of less than 500 km 2.
   Sharp edged plate weirs, of rectangular or vee-shape depending upon the sensitivity
required, are generally only suitable for spring flows or for debris-free small streams. The
need to keep the weir nappe aerated at all stages limits their use, but they are frequently
used for low flow surveys as they can be rapidly placed in small channels.
   Of all the weirs that designers have tried, perhaps the most successful has been that
of Crump 9 (see Section 10.14). It has a simple and efficient flow characteristic {2 -
1.966 H ~5 m3/s, whilst operating up to the total head at which tailwater reaches 75% of
that upstream (relative to crest height). Using the crest tapping designed by Crump it is
possible to go further and attain reasonable results up to 90% submergence, but this
versatility is marred by a tendency for the crest tappings to block in floods carrying
sediment. A minimum head of 6 cm on the weir is necessary for accuracy, but with
compounding of the weir crest this can be achieved. The flat-vee variant is another
possibility.
68   Hydrology and surface supplies


   The accuracy of streamflow data obtained from weirs can often be poorer than
generally realised. Laboratory rating conditions rarely appear in real rivers where
deterioration of the weir crest or siltation upstream from the weir resulting in non-
standard approach conditions can cause errors in excess of 10%. Drowning out of the weir
at high flows can also be a problem and may result in the gross over-estimation of flood
discharges.
   Critical depth flumes are appropriate on smaller catchments of, say, under 100 km 2
which have a wide flow variation and where sensitive results are required. Essentially a
contraction of the channel forces flow to attain critical depth over a fixed section whatever
the upstream head. A unique upstream head-discharge relationship is then created such
that for a rectangular throat

        Q = 1.705Cvbh 15 m 3/s

(see Section 10.9), where b is the effective width (m), h is the effective head (m) and Cv is
the approach velocity coefficient. Introduction of a shape factor is possible for trapezoidal
or U-shaped throats.
   Calibration of an existing sluice structure may be achieved using formulae derived from
laboratory model tests, but these should be checked by current meter measurements
wherever possible. Sometimes long, relatively homogeneous sluice keeper's records exist, t3
and the calibration of such sites can then produce records of flow of several decades in
length for a modest cost.
   Dilution gauging 11 is a flow measurement technique that is particularly well suited to
small turbulent streams with rocky beds where the shallow depths and high velocities are
unsuitable for accurate current meter gaugings. The approach can also be used to calibrate
non-standard gauging structures. With dilution gauging the discharge is measured by
adding a chemical solution of known concentration to the flow and measuring the dilution
of the solution some distance downstream where the chemical is completely mixed with the
stream flow. Sodium dichromate is the most commonly used chemical although dyes such
as Rhodomine B have the advantage that they can be easily detected at very low
concentrations. With the commonly used 'gulp injection' method a known volume of
chemical is added to the stream flow as quickly as possible in a single 'gulp' and
downstream samples are used to construct a graph of concentration against time. It
follows that if a known volume of chemical V of concentration C1 is added to a streamflow
and the varying downstream concentration C2 is measured regularly then

         VC1 - Q       C2 dt

A graph of C2 against time is drawn and the area below it between t~ when the chemical
just starts to be detected in the stream, to time t2 when it ceases to be detectable is
measured. This gives the integral on the right, hence Q can be found.
   Ultrasonic gauging uses the transmission of sound pulses to measure the mean velocity
at a prescribed depth across a river channel. Two sets of transmitters/receivers are usually
located on either bank of a rectangular channel, offset at an angle of about 45 ~ to the
direction of flow. They send ultrasonic pulses through the water, mean water velocity at
pulse level being a function of the difference in pulse travel times in upstream and
downstream directions. In essence ultrasonic flow measurement is a velocity-area method
requiring a survey of the channel cross-section at the gauging site. If used in conjunction
                                                              3.5 Rainfall measurement    69


with a water level recorder, ultrasonic measurements can provide a complete record of
stream flows. However the method is most frequently used to check the stage discharge
relationship of an existing station.



3.5     Rainfall measurement
Precipitation is measured with a rain gauge, the majority of which are little more than
standard cylindrical vessels so designed that rainfall is stored within them and does not
evaporate before it can be measured. ~4 In an effort to ensure that consistent measurements
of the precipitation reaching the ground are obtained, observers are recommended to use
standard instruments which are set up in a uniform manner in representative locations.
Many national meteorological institutions provide pamphlets designed to ensure good
standard observation practice and the World Meteorological Organization plays an
effective co-ordinating role.
   The standard daily rain gauge in U K is the Meteorological Office Mark II instrument
which consists of a 127 mm diameter copper cylinder with a chamfered rim made of brass.
Precipitation which falls on the rain gauge orifice drains through a funnel into a removable
container from which the rain may be poured into a graduated glass measuring cylinder.
The Bradford rain gauge is a daily storage gauge which was first made for Bradford
Waterworks who required a larger capacity instrument to deal with the higher rainfalls in
the Pennines in the north of England. The greater depth of the container below the ground
surface also reduces the risk of the collected rain freezing. Monthly storage gauges are
designed to measure the rainfall in remoter areas and are invaluable on the higher parts of
reservoir catchments. The Seathwaite gauge is a monthly storage gauge developed for use
in the Lake District in north-west England.
   Ideally rainfall should be measured at ground level but this gives rise to problems due to
rain splashing into the gauge. The higher the rim is placed, the more some rain will be
blown away from the gauge orifice and go unrecorded. All standard storage gauges in the
United Kingdom are set into the ground with their rim level and 300 mm above the
ground surface which should be covered by short grass or gravel to prevent any rainsplash.
Many international gauges are set with their rim one metre high: these can be expected to
read 3% lower than the standard British gauge.
   In the United Kingdom daily storage gauges are inspected each day at 09.00 hours and
any rainfall collected is attributed to the previous day's date. If the inner container of a
rain gauge should overflow as the result of exceptional rainfall, or possibly because of
irregular emptying, it is important that the surplus water held in the outer casing should
also be recorded. Monthly storage gauges are usually inspected on the first day of each
month to measure the previous month's rainfall total. Corrections may need to be made to
the measurements taken at any gauges visited later than the standard time during spells of
wet weather.
   Specialised problems occur in snow prone areas. Small quantities of sleet or snow which
fall into a rain gauge will usually melt to yield their water equivalent, but if the snow
remains in the collecting funnel it must be melted to combine with any liquid in the gauge.
If there is deep fresh snow lying on the ground at the time of measurement, possibly
burying the gauge, a core of the snow should be taken on level ground and melted to find
the equivalent rainfall. Countries that each year experience a snow cover throughout the
70   Hydrology and surface supplies

winter months require regular snow course surveys is to monitor the amount of
precipitation.
    Continuously recording rain gauges are invaluable for flood studies. The original type
gives a daily chart recording of the accumulated contents of a rain-filled container: this
empties by a tilting siphon principle each time 5 mm has collected. As staff time costs rise
for chart analysis this type falls out of favour. A more recent development is the tilting
bucket gauge linked to a logger which will run for at least 1 month. Each time the bucket
tilts to discharge 2 mm the event is recorded in a computer compatible form. A daily or
monthly storage gauge is often installed on the same site as a recording gauge to serve as a
check gauge and to avoid the possibility of loss of data due to instrument failure.
    Particular care must be taken when siting a new rain gauge from which the resulting
records are to be published. The gauge should be placed on level ground, ideally in a
sheltered location with no ground falling away steeply on the windward side. Obstructions
such as trees and buildings, which affect local wind flow, should be a distance away from
the gauge of at least twice their height above it. In particularly exposed locations, such as
moorlands, it used to be standard British practice to install a turf wall ~5 around the gauge.
With staff reduction to reduce costs, however, it has proved difficult to sustain the level of
turf maintenance that is needed.
    The 150 cm 2 'mouth' area of a standard rain gauge is an almost infinitesmally small part
of the catchment area it will be taken to represent. Nevertheless by judiciously siting the
gauges in typical catchment settings a relatively small number of gauges can provide a
surprisingly accurate representation of catchment rainfall. The number of gauges required
to give a reliable estimate of catchment rainfall increases where rainfall gradients are
marked. A minimum density of one per 25 km 2 should be the target, bearing in mind that
significant thunderstorm systems may be only about 20 km 2 in size. In hilly country, where
orographic effects may lead to large and consistent rainfall variations in short distances, it
can be necessary for the first few years to adopt the high densities suggested in Table 3.1.
Thereafter high densities are only required where control accuracy necessitates it.
    In large areas of the tropics there is great variation in rainfall from place to place on any
one day, but only a relatively small variation in annual totals; in such areas the rain gauge
densities of Table 3.1 will be excessive and it is better to concentrate on obtaining
homogeneous records of long duration at a few reliable sites. Rainfall (and snowfall) totals
are best computed monthly and summed each year. Weekly or 10 day values should be
 avoided because they neither correspond to the duration of significant hydrological events
nor precisely fit an annual calendar.




                        Table 3.1   Rain gauges required in a hill area 16

                        Catchment area (km 2)             Number of gauges
                           4                               6
                          20                              10
                          80                              20
                         160                              30
                                                              3.5 Rainfall measurement    71


Measurement of catchment rainfall
There are several methods for computing catchment precipitation from rain gauge
measurements ranging from simple numerical procedures, interpolation from isohyetal
maps or Thiessen polygons, and from numerical interpolation procedures of which
Kriging iv and trend surface are most frequently used. The simplest objective method of
calculating the average monthly or annual catchment rainfall is to sum the corresponding
measurements at all gauges within or close to the catchment boundaries and to divide the
total by the number of gauges. The arithmetic mean provides a reliable estimate, provided
the whole catchment is of similar topography and the rain gauge stations are fairly evenly
distributed. Also if accurate values of area rainfall are obtained first from a large number
of rainfall stations within a catchment by one or other of the more time consuming
methods described below, then it may be found that the mean of the corresponding
measurements from a smaller number of stations may provide equally acceptable results.
In the Thames Basin, for example, it was found that the annual catchment rainfall for the
9980 km 2 area could be derived by taking the arithmetic mean of 24 well-distributed
representative gauges, to within i 2 % of the catchment value computed by a more
elaborate method using measurements from 225 stations.
   The isohyetal method is generally considered to be the most accurate method of
computing catchment rainfall. The method is, however, laborious and subjective, and
dependent on the analyst having a good understanding of the rainfall of the region. The
monthly or annual rainfall total recorded by each gauge within or close to the catchment
boundaries is plotted on a contour base map. Isohyetal lines, i.e. lines joining points of
equal rainfall, are then drawn on the map taking into account the likely effects of
topography on the rainfall distribution. If any isohyetal shows an unusual feature, the
gauge readings must be checked and the shape of the plotted isohyets critically reviewed.
When the isohyets have been adjusted to give the most likely rainfall distribution, the total
precipitation over the catchment for the period considered is obtained by planimetering
the areas between isohyets. The mean catchment rainfall is calculated by summing the
products of the areas between each pair of isohyets and the corresponding mean rainfall
between them, and then dividing by the total catchment area.
   When long-term average rainfall values are available for most stations in a region for a
common period of 30 or more years, it is often useful to plot isopercental lines instead of
isohyetal lines. Isopercental lines connect locations on a map which have the same
percentage of the average annual rainfall or the average monthly rainfall - the choice being
one of convenience. Once defined they are a reliable means of estimating missing
individual gauge readings at sites where the average is known, and also of determining the
area rainfall for a given event if the long-term average annual catchment rainfall is already
known. If, for example, the rainfall total for each station for a given year is plotted as a
percentage of the station's standard period long-term average annual rainfall, then
isopercental lines can be drawn. The areas between pairs of isopercental lines can then be
planimetered and applied to the mean percentage between isopercentals. The overall
catchment percentage is obtained by dividing the sum of these products by the catchment
area. This is applied to the long-term average annual rainfall to provide the average
catchment rainfall for the given year. The advantages of the isopercental approach are that
isopercental values for a particular period tend to be much less variable spatially than the
actual rainfall totals and thus the plotting of isopercentile lines can be computerised more
readily. The isopercental technique is particularly applicable in regions with many long
72   Hydrology and surface supplies




               (---
                      /                                                                                     /
                                                                                                      .t"
                                                                                                            Dam



            cq )
                      ',--,. c~
                                                                       Y                  /
                                                                                              /
                                                                                                  /

                                                                                      /
                                             \                                    /
                                                 \
                                                     \
                                                         \
               A = rain gauge                                N\
                                                                  N,
                                                                           f/ /
                                                                           /



Fig. 3.1 Thiessen's method of estimating general rainfall over an area.


rainfall records where reliable long-term average annual catchment rainfall values are
available. The technique is much less useful in regions with limited or fragmentary records.
   The most popular method of weighting gauge readings objectively by area has been that
of Thiessen. An area around each gauge is obtained by drawing a bisecting perpendicular
to the lines joining gauges, as shown in Fig. 3.1. The portion of each polygon so formed
lying within the catchment boundary is measured and the rainfall upon each is assumed to
equal the gauge reading. The total precipitation is the weighted average of these values.
One drawback is that, if the gauges are altered in number or location, major alterations to
the polygonal pattern ensue. To maintain homogeneity it is better to estimate any missing
individual gauge values. The gauges must also be reasonably evenly distributed if the
results are to lie within a few percent of the isohyetal method. The approach is not
particularly good for mountainous areas because no account is taken of the effects of
altitude on rainfall when deriving the Thiessen coefficients for individual polygons.
   In mountainous areas where there may be few stations the main difficulty is to allow for
the influence of topographic effects. One widely used approach for such areas is to develop
a multivariate regression model using parameters such as elevation, orientation, exposure
or distance from the sea, and then using a numerical interpolation procedure such as
Kriging 17 to smooth out residual discrepancies from the regression correlation.
   Progress has been made in rainfall estimation by both weather radar and satellite. The
strength of both lies in the spatial view they afford with the former being particularly good
for flood forecast purposes. Radar averaging is normally 2 x 2 km or 5 x 5 km over 5 or
 15 minutes: the lowest altitude scan needs to be calibrated against concurrent autographic
rain gauges. Satellite estimates are far more approximate, being related to cloud top
 temperature and only indirectly to actual rainfall amount. For large basins in the tropics it
                                       3.6 Evaporation and transpiration measurement      73


is now possible to obtain public domain estimates of 0.5 x 0.5 ~ grid satellite 'monthly rain
estimates' from the Climate Analysis Center, Washington DC.


3.6     Evaporation and transpiration measurement
Evaporation is a key part of the hydrological cycle in that, on a global basis approximately
75% of total annual precipitation is returned to the atmosphere by the processes of
evaporation and transpiration. Water evaporates to the air from any open water surface or
film of water on soil, vegetation, or impervious surfaces such as roads and roofs. The rate
of evaporation varies with the colour and reflective properties of the surface(the albedo),
and with climatic factors of which the most important are solar radiation energy,
windspeed, the relative humidity of the air and the temperature of the water and air.
   Transpiration is the water used by plants to produce a mature crop. A small part of this
water is retained in the plant tissue, but the bulk passes through the roots to the stem or
trunk and is transpired into the atmosphere through the leaves. As it is almost impossible
under field conditions to differentiate between evaporation and transpiration when the
ground is covered with vegetation, the amounts of water used by both processes are
usually combined and referred to as 'evapotranspiration'.
   Evapotranspiration losses vary with the same meteorological factors as evaporation, but
also depend upon the incidence of the precipitation, the characteristics and stage of
development of the vegetation, and the properties of the soil.
   It is difficult to measure evaporation with any certainty by means of an evaporation
tank because of the edge effects associated with such an instrument. The standard
approaches to the problem are either direct or indirect. 18 For direct measurement of
evaporation the USA Class A pan is of galvanised iron or monel metal, 1.21 m in diameter
and 255 mm deep. It is set on a standard wooden framework 100 mm above ground level,
thus allowing air to circulate all round it. As a result measured evaporation is higher than
that of a natural water surface and a reduction factor must be applied. This is generally
taken to be 0.7, but it can vary between 0.35 in areas of low humidity, very strong wind
and surrounded by bare soil, and 0.85 where high humidity and light winds prevail. 19 The
British Symons sunken tank is 1.83 m square and 610 mm deep, with the rim 75 mm
above ground level. It is more nearly a model of reservoir evaporation but suffers from
inconsistent results if it is not in tight contact with the surrounding ground. The heat
storage of a small tank is correspondingly small, whereas a large lake takes time to warm
up or cool down. As a consequence tanks results do not quite match the evaporation of a
nearby lake in regions with strong seasonal temperature variations. Peak lake evaporation
rates in the Kempton Park experiment 2~ occurred up to a month after peak tank
measurements and this was explained by heat storage theory. Annual open water
evaporation ranges from 700 mm in Northern Europe, through 1500 mm in much of the
tropics, to more than 2500 mm in hot arid zones.
   Unfortunately no standard percolation gauge to measure evapotranspiration by a given
type of vegetation has yet been devised. Most are formed by a large diameter pipe sunk
about one metre into the ground and carefully filled with the original soil layers. A surface
cover of short grass is irrigated by a trickle hose if potential evapotranspiration is to be
measured. Otherwise any water percolating through the soil layers during rainfall is
drained from the bottom of the pipe to a nearby access manhole where it is measured. 21
Deduction of the measured percolate from rainfall measured by an adjacent rain gauge
74    Hydrology and surface supplies


gives the evapotranspiration loss from a non-irrigated percolation gauge, but only between
dates of equal soil moisture content in the gauge will this figure be meaningful.
   A lysimeter measures water-balance elements to get a measure of evapotranspiration on
a larger scale. The term normally covers a small catchment plot underlain by impermeable
geology, with a single type of vegetation and from which all overland flow and shallow
drainage can be measured. Rainfall is measured above the canopy of vegetation on the
plot so that the total evaporative losses from the canopy and at ground level can be
inferred. The technique is particularly useful for showing the relative water consumption
characteristics of moorland, forest, arable crops, and pasture.
   Penman's formula 22 for predicting water surface evaporation indirectly is recognised as
the most accurate, being based on physical principles, but it involves use of data which
may not always be available, e.g. on measurements of radiation (or sunshine duration),
wind run at 2 m above ground, vapour pressure and air temperature, all of which should
be taken at the same site. At altitudes above about 1000 m, McCulloch's fuller version of
Penman's equation 23 should be used as it makes express allowance for the corresponding
pressure drop as well as adjusting the radiation term for latitude.
   Penman also showed how simple coefficients could be applied to his open water
evaporation figures to obtain the evapotranspiration rate from a grassed surface. The use
of the latter became standardised as being the evapotranspiration (designated ETo) - 'from
green grass surface cover 80-150 mm high, actively growing.' Crop coefficients kr could
then be applied to give the evapotranspiration of various types of crops at various stages
of development and meteorological conditions, e.g. ETccrop) = kc x ETo.
    Thornthwaite's formula for evapotranspiration from short vegetative cover, widely used
in USA, is empirical and simpler than Penman's, being dependent on sunshine hours and
mean monthly temperature. Thornthwaite's method has been widely used, but it is strictly
valid only for climates similar to that of eastern USA where the method was developed.
The method tends to give potential evaporation estimates higher than those produced by
the Penman formula, particularly so during the summer months.
    The most recent guide to assessing the irrigation requirements of growing crops is the
FAO's Irrigation and Drainage Paper 4 6 - 'CROPWAT: A Computer Program for
 Irrigation Planning and Management' 1992. This computes evapotranspiration Eto values
 according to the Penman-Monteith method, to which quoted crop coefficients, k~ as
 mentioned above, are then applied according to type of crop and its stage of development.
 An earlier FAO publication of 1976- 'Crop Water Requirements: Irrigation and Drainage
 Paper 24' was based on the Blaney-Criddle formula which uses temperature and length of
 daylight hours to give ETo values, which are then modified by values given for a range of
 humidities and wind speeds.
    It has to be borne in mind that evapotranspiration formulae assume no shortage of
 water to meet crop growth and potential evaporation. Hence, in dry periods with
 insufficient precipitation, lesser evapotranspiration figures must apply. A good explana-
 tion of all the foregoing indirect methods of estimating evapotranspiration is given by
 Wilson. 24


3.7       Soil moisture measurement
The study of soil moisture has always been of vital interest to agriculturalists, but more
recently the potential impact of soil moisture content on runoff has been understood to a
                                                                    3.8 Catchment losses    75


greater extent. The temporary storage of rainfall in the soil and aquifer layers of a
catchment can be significant in the overall catchment water balance. Soil moisture
variations occur predominantly in the first metre below the surface. From the driest
(Wilting point) condition to the wettest drained state (Field capacity) may mean a rise
from 3 to 10% water content in very sandy soil, or from 20 to 40% in a clay soil. Thus the
maximum range of water storage in one metre of soil may be as much as 200 mm.
Markedly higher values apply to peat. Additional water may be held under waterlogged
conditions whenever the drainage rate is lower than the rainfall intensity.
   A knowledge of the types and distributions of soils over the area of interest is an
essential prerequisite for the selection of sampling points at which to measure soil
moisture. For England and Wales this information can be obtained from maps published
by the Soil Survey and Land Research Centre at Silsoe, while for Scotland soil maps can
be obtained from the Macaulay Land Use Institute, Aberdeen. In developing countries it
may be necessary to engage a soil scientists to carry out soil surveys in the catchments
where detailed hydrological measurements are required in order to ensure that the
sampling points cover the main soil types and vegetation zones.
   A common method of measuring soil moisture is by means of a gravimetric
determination whereby a soil sample of known volume removed from the ground with
a soil auger, is first weighed, then dried in a special oven and finally reweighed. The
method is accurate provided care is taken with the measurements and is often used to
calibrate other techniques. However, the method is time consuming and requires
laboratory facilities. It is also a destructive process and has obvious limitations where
regular sampling is required. The neutron measurement probe was developed in the 1950s
to provide direct field measurements, but because it used a radioactive source, it has been
superseded by the soil capacitance probe 25 which poses no safety management problems.


3.8      Catchment losses
A significant proportion of rainfall is lost by immediate evaporation or by the later
transpiration of growing vegetation. In some cases there will also be deep infiltration that
eventually emerges in the sea without ever appearing in surface drainage channels.
Catchment losses are best estimated from a water balance conducted over a number of
years on the catchment concerned, or on one of similar rainfall, geology and land use.
   A typical loss rate in England would be 450 mm per annum, with significantly higher
figures above 500 mm per annum generally only occurring where afforestation pre-
dominates in a high rainfall area. Table 3.2 gives some idea of the variation in loss in
different regions of the world. Although it might be thought that losses would be higher in
years hotter than average, this is often more than offset by the concurrent dryness of the
weather, which leads to a deficit of moisture in the soil which in turn leads to a limit on the
transpiration of water by the growing vegetation. As soil dries out and approaches wilting
point it has been shown that evapotranspiration rates can drop to only about one-tenth of
those to be expected from weather data. Some plants are much more successful than others
at their control of water use in drought conditions, for instance pine trees have a marked
ability to conserve water in this way.
   Losses do not always drop with cooler altitudes because advected wind energy together
with higher radiation gains may intervene. Detailed measurements at experimental
catchments by the Institute of Hydrology have shown that losses increase with the density
76      Hydrology and surface supplies

Table 3.2 Typical catchment losses in various parts of the world

                                                                                      Marked
                                                         Annual          Annual       seasonal
Country          Location          Catchment cover       rainfall (mm)   loss (ram)   variation
Nigeria          Ibadan            Rain forest           2500            2350         No
Malaysia         Johor basin       Forest/oil palm       2320            1240         No
Sri Lanka        Kirindi Oya       Mixed forest          1650            1230         Yes
Hong Kong        Islands           Grass                 2100            1050         No
Zaire            Fimi              Rain forest           1700            1040         No

Thailand         Chaa Phraya       Forest/rice paddy     1130            1000         No
Japan            Ota               Conifer forest        1615             890         Yes
Australia        Perth             Mixed grass/forest     875             760         Yes
S. Africa        Transvaal         Mixed grass/forest     870             760         Yes
Kenya            Tana              Forest/savannah       1100             730         Yes

India            Bombay            Rain forest           2550             700         Yes
Zimbabwe         Low Velt          Mixed grass/forest     655             560         Yes
Lesotho          Maseru            Grassland              600             530         Yes
Holland          Castricum         Low vegetation         830             450         Yes

Britain          South England     Pasture/arable         600-900         450-530 ~
                 Midlands          Pasture/arable         650-850         440
                 Central Wales     Moorland/forest       1500-2300        480-530
                 Pennines          Moorland/forest       1150-1800        410--460  Yes
                 NE England        Moorland/pasture       700-1250        380
                 S. Scotland       Moorland/pasture       600-1800        360--410
                 N. Scotland       Moorland/pasture      1250-2500        330-380

Algeria           Hamman Grouz     Scrub                  420             400         Yes
Russia            Moscow           Agricultural           525-600         375         Yes
Iraq              Adheim basin     Scrub/grassland        420             350         Yes
Sth. Korea        Had basin        Forest                1180             320         Yes
Oman              Oman             Rock                   160             130         Yes
 Iran             Khatunabad       Bare ground            150-550          50-200     Yes



and height of natural vegetation growth and crops; this is particularly so with mature
coniferous forests. However, predicting forest annual loss compared with that from grazed
pasture is still not easy. It has been shown that the forest loss is due to intercepted
raindrops being evaporated back into the atmosphere at rates up to five times normal
transpiration values for short grass. This is because water laid out in thin films on
vegetation can take up available heat in the atmosphere more readily; the sight of a forest
                                                         3.9 Streamflow naturalisation    77


steaming gently in a short spell of sunshine between showers is not uncommon. To
quantify the extra loss to be expected requires 26 an idea of the depth of water the canopy
of vegetation can hold during a shower and the frequency of showers. One point to note is
that whilst rain is being evaporated off the outside of leaves, water will not be transpired
through them. As a result perhaps only 90% of forest interception losses will be an
addition to the catchment losses that would prevail anyway.
   A review 27 of 94 catchment experiments in Africa, Asia, Australia and North America
concluded that conifer forests could be expected to reduce catchment water yield, on
average, by 40 mm per 10% forest cover. More recent studies 2s at Plynlimon in the U K
found that the magnitude of the reduction in water yield was 29 mm per 10% forest cover
which equates to a 15% reduction in the water yield for a completely forested upland
catchment. It should be noted, however, that while heavy afforestation of catchments
reduces their overall water yield, the results of the Plynlimon study and from a study 29 of
catchment data from 40 European agencies found no statistically significant relationship
between the proportion of forest cover and measures of low flow. These findings support
the view that low flows in upland headwater catchments are primarily influenced by
drainage from minor sources of groundwater which remain largely unaffected by forest
interception losses.


3.9       Streamflow naturalisation
Nowadays the majority of catchments are already partly developed, so that it is rarely
sufficient to evaluate a potential resource directly from the as-gauged stream flow records.
Most surface water resource studies are preceded by some form of naturalisation to
determine the sequence of streamflows which would have occurred with the river basin in
its current state but with no abstractions or discharges of water. If there are no reservoirs
within the catchment then the flow naturalisation involves the use of the basic equation
given below over a daily or, more commonly, a monthly time step.

          Natural flow -- gauged river flow
                           plus sum of all upstream abstractions
                           minus sum of all upstream discharges and return flows to river

The naturalisation of a stream flow record is critically dependent upon the availability of
good quality data for both the stream flows and for all abstractions from, or return flows
to, the river system upstream of the gauging station over the whole period for which
naturalisation is required. The main types of abstraction or losses from a river system
which may need to be considered are:
9     public water supply abstractions
9     irrigation abstractions;
9     power station cooling water abstractions;
9     industrial (non-cooling) water abstractions;
and the more common gains are from:
9     sewage and industrial effluent returns;
9     irrigation return flows.
78   Hydrology and surface supplies

For catchments which contain a reservoir, allowance also needs to be made for the storage
and attenuation of flows, and for additional evaporation losses from the reservoir surface
which can be a significant item in warm semi-arid environments. Although relatively
simple in outline, the naturalisation of a flow record often proves to be a complex and time
consuming process in practice, usually because of the limited availability of the necessary
data. Where the required data, either for the abstractions and returns, or for changes in
reservoir storage are not available, appropriate estimates must be made. For England and
Wales, the Water Archive and Monitoring system, and the National Abstractions Licence
Database, operated by the Environment Agency are important repositories of the types of
data required for naturalisation. These data bases do not, however, solve all the problems
of naturalisation.
   There has been a considerable growth in spray irrigation usage in the United Kingdom
in the last two decades in order to enhance crop yields and to meet the tight product
controls imposed by supermarkets and other purchasers. Details of licensed annual
volumes and maximum daily abstractions are normally readily available for all
abstractions, but the actual pattern of usage is much more difficult to obtain, as data
on actual abstractions is often limited to the annual values for the larger abstractions. As a
result irrigation abstractions are often assumed to follow the same pattern each year
although in some studies soil moisture and rainfall data have been used to refine estimates
of actual usage.
   Diversions of water into channels for subsurface irrigation are more difficult to evaluate
because they are unlikely to be controlled; they may be made through a variety of
diversion canals or by sluices ('slackers') from embanked main rivers. The water is used to
ensure that local ditch levels are kept high enough to permit crop roots to draw water from
the associated water table, but low enough to encourage good root growth. Obtaining an
exact estimate of irrigation consumption of this type on a major basin while it is happening
is rarely possible. Some indication of the quantities involved in English conditions are
shown in Table 3.3. Larger use occurs where piped under-drains (i.e. land drains) exist as
well.
   The impact of groundwater abstractions on river flows is another problem area. The
amount by which a particular groundwater abstraction reduces the river flows over a given
length of river depends on the complex inter-relationships of a number of variables.
Abstractions from 'bankside' wells where the river bed is in direct contact with the


Table 3.3 Subsurface irrigation quantities in England

                                    Consumptive water use for subsurface seasonal irrigation
                           Average in the growing season (M1/day per km2)
                           rainfall
                           (mm)     Mar      Apr     May      Jun      Jul    Aug        Sep
 South levels (fens)
 Cambridgeshire (arable) 225                   0.3      0.8       1.3      1.2     0.6      -
 Somerset moors          290                            0.3       0.2     0.4      0.4      0.1

Note. Subsurface irrigation normally occurs only in well-watered flatland areas used for arable crop
farming.
                                              3.10 Long-term average catchment runoff 79

groundwater table can be expected to cause a direct matching reduction in river flows,
whereas the impact of abstraction from wells more remote from the river may be time-
lagged, particularly at times of low flows when groundwater table levels may be below
river bed levels. The results of regional groundwater models may help the engineer to
make an appropriate judgement about how best to allow for the effect of groundwater
abstractions in the naturalisation process.
   River flows are likely to be directly affected wherever inland power stations 3~ are built.
A 2000 MW station on full load can lose about 65 M1/day by cooling tower evaporation,
but this reduces with lower load factors. The recent change to more efficient combined
cycle gas turbine power stations is likely to lessen the overall impact on rivers as older
power stations are closed down. It should also be recognised that there are some
significant abstractions which do not require licences. British Waterways, for example,
take water to replenish their canals for navigation. Frequently these flows are not
measured. In urbanised areas there will be abstractions by infiltration to sewers laid below
the water table level; and there may be additions of leakage from water distribution
systems.



3.10    Long-term average catchment runoff
Wherever possible average catchment runoff should be calculated from a long streamflow
record which, if subject to artificial influences, has been naturalised as described in the
previous Section. For those sites where streamflow data are either short term or non-
existent, long-term average runoff can be estimated:
(1) by correlating the brief records available for the study catchment with those of a long
    record station in a catchment with similar characteristics;
(2) by deducting loss estimates from catchment rainfall figures;
(3) by the use of a rainfall/runoff model.
Correlations between long and short record stations are best carried out using monthly
data. The use of daily figures is more time-consuming and often produces a large scatter
while annual values provide too few points. An initial mathematical 'best fit' relationship
between the stations may be derived by computer but a graphical plot should always be
produced to ensure that the computed relationship provides a good fit to the bulk of the
data. A manual adjustment should be made if, for example, the mathematically computed
relationship is unduly influenced by the values for a few high flow months, or if the
relationship implies unreal intercept values.
   An estimate for average runoff for a catchment for which no streamflow records exist is
often obtained by deducting a value for average annual catchment losses due to
evapotranspiration from the average annual catchment rainfall obtained from an annual
isohyetal map of the region for a selected standard period, such as 1961-90. If possible, the
value for average annual catchment losses should be based on the typical average annual
loss value obtained from similar gauged catchments throughout the region. In the UK
estimates of actual evapotranspiration can also be obtained from the MORECS
estimates 31 produced by the Meteorological Office for defined 40  40 km grid squares,
or from the estimates of catchment average annual potential evapotranspiration 32 and the
adjustment factors listed in Table 3.4.
80   Hydrology and surface supplies

Table 3.4    Adjustment factor for estimating actual evaporation in the United Kingdom 33

Standard average annual rainfall (mm)      500     600    700     9800    900    1000       > 1100
Adjustment factor                          0.88    0.90   0.92     0.92   0.94   0.96       1.00



   For most regions rainfall stations are more numerous and have longer records than
streamflow measurement stations. Rainfall/runoff models are therefore commonly used to
extend short-term stream flow records. Typically a chosen model is calibrated by adjusting
the model parameters so as to produce the best possible match between predicted and
measured flows. The calibrated model is them used to extend the short-term stream flow
data to cover a particular standard period. One of the usual checks on the synthetic stream
flow data generated by rainfall/runoff models is whether they accurately reproduce the
long-term mean runoff estimated by other means. However for a catchment where only a
short-term stream flow record is available and there are no representative long-term
stream flow measurement stations in the region, an approximate estimate of the long-term
catchment runoff can be obtained using a rainfall/runoff model such as HYSIM 34 or
H Y R R O M 35 (see Section 3.16).



3.11        Minimum rainfalls
Experience of past recorded droughts and low rainfall is an important factor in assessing
probable future conditions that may be encountered. In the variable climate of the U K the
longest known spell without any recorded rain at all 36 was for 73 days from 4 March 1893
at Mile End in London. At the other extreme, in desert climates many years may have no
rainfall at all. At Calama which is near the desert region of northern Chile, it is believed
that virtually no rain fell for 400 years until a sudden storm fell in 1972.
   The most notable droughts in England and Wales this century were the following.
 1921            Annual rainfall lowest in over 100 years in SE England. Spring sources hard
                 hit as the autumn rainfall was insufficient to prevent flow recession which
                 began in a dry spring and continued until January 1922 in many parts.
 1933-34         Two dry summers with a remarkably dry winter intervening occurred in
                 Wales and mid-England.
 1943-44         A similar pattern to 1933-34 in S England. Very low flows experienced in
                 spring-fed rivers because preceding years were also dryish.
 1949            Exceptionally low summer rainfall and high temperatures affected sources
                 reliant on river flows or with little storage.
 1959            Similar to 1949.
 1975-76         Many low flow records broken because of low summer rainfall.
 1988-92         A succession of dry winters taxed groundwater supplies in southern and
                 eastern England. Runoff deficits in parts of east England were the largest
                 for 150 years.
 1995-96         Two dry summers with a very dry winter intervening experienced in the
                 Pennines.
   The point about these diverse low rainfall experiences was that they followed no
 predictable pattern. Hence in estimating the minimum yield a source will provide, it is
 necessary to bear in mind the types of drought which past experience shows are possible.
                                                        3.12 Minimum rates of runoff 81

  To estimate drought rainfall for catchment modelling either one can use a knowledge of
recorded minimum rainfall for a region, expressed as a percentage of the average, or one
can carry out a statistical analysis 37 of available rainfall measurements.



3.12    Minimum rates of runoff
In temperate climates with variable rainfall, when minimum runoffs are expressed as rates
per unit catchment area, it can often be seen that geology and topography of the
catchment are the major influences, except where human activity has interfered. Clearly
the dry weather flow of many small catchments is zero; and bournes, which are streams
flowing strongly when the water table is high, dry out gradually from their headwaters as
the water table level falls away from the stream bed. But in temperate zones where rainfall
occurs throughout the year, large rivers do not dry up.
   Several studies have attempted to predict minimum flows of specified severity after
regional analysis of flow records. Notable examples include those for Malaysia, 38
Europe, 39 New York State 4~ and that produced in 1992 by the Institute of Hydrology
(IoH) for the UK. 4! The last named provided formulae for estimating drought flows based
catchment characteristics. A summary national equation for UK was also quoted which
accounted for 62% of the variations encountered and is as follows.

            1 day mean flow exceeded 95% of the time (095(1)) = 44B1"43 S~176 A~176

where: Q9s(1) is the 1 day flow, expressed as a percentage of the long-term average daily
flow; B is the base flow index (BFI) (see Table 3.5); S is the Standard Average Annual
Rainfall 1941-70 in mm; A is the catchment area in km 2.
   The mean annual 7-day minimum flow, MAM(7) = 6.40 Q95(1)0"953 S -0"0342, where
MAM(7) is expressed as a percentage of the long-term average daily flow, S, is as defined
above, and Q95(1) is derived as shown.
   The BFI represents the proportion of river flow which it is estimated is derived from
underground storage. A way of evaluating it was developed by the IoH which used a
computer program to analyse a long sequence of daily flows by locating the minima of
consecutive non-overlapping 5-day flow totals. The program then searched for the
'turning points' in this sequence of minima, connecting them together to form the
estimated baseflow hydrograph (Fig. 3.2 shows a graphical representation of the
procedure). The BFI is then the volume of flow below the baseflow hydrograph, divided
by the total flow for the same period.
   The BFI values for over 1300 gauged catchments in UK are given in the latest issue of
the IoH/British Geological Survey publication Hydrological Data UK." Hydrometric
Register and Statistics. 42 For any ungauged catchment an estimate of the BFI can be
obtained either by interpolation between the values for upstream and downstream gauging
stations quoted in the Hydrometric Register for the same river, or by transposing the value
for a gauged catchment with a similar average annual rainfall, surface geology and soil
type. The approach has been adopted by a number of countries for analysis of their river
low flows, the advantage being that annual values of BFI tend to be more stable than
other low flow variables. Details of the method are given in the IoH's Low Flows Study. 4~
The range of BFI values typically applying is shown in Table 3.5.
82   Hydrology and surface supplies

                 12   D




                                                                     Recorded hydrograpth VA
                                                                     Five-day minima
                 10
                                                              ......... Base flow line VB




                  8                                                   Base flow index =


            y
            E
                                                /
                                                         /

                                   rsj ,,~176

                  4
                            t /
                            I/
                            t~
                           I/
                  2




                                            I                    I                I                 I         I
                          January                   Febuary            March                April       May

Fig. 3.2    Derivation of base flow index.




Table 3.5    Typical baseflow indices for various rock types

Dominant                          Dominant
permeability                      storage                                                                     Typical BFI
characteristics                   characteristics                       Example of rock type                  range
 Fissured                         High storage                          Chalk                                 0.90-0.98
                                                                        Oolitic limestones                    0.85-0.95
                                  Low storage                           Carboniferous limestone               0.20-0.75
                                                                        Millstone grit                        0.35-0.45
 Intergranular                    High storage                          Permo-Triassic sandstone              0.70-0.80
                                  Low storage                           Coal measures                         0.40-0.55
                                                                        Hastings beds                         0.35-0.50
 Impermeable                      Low storage at                        Lias                                  0.40-0.70
                                  shallow depth                         Old Red sandstone                     0.46-0.54
                                                                        Metamorphic-Igneous                   0.30-0.50
                                  No storage                            Oxford & London clay                  0.14-0.45
                                                                                                                                        3.13 Maximum rainfalls                                                   83


3.13            Maximum                         rainfalls

Figure 3.3 is a plot of the maximum measured rainfalls recorded at individual points in the
world. It must be stressed that the highest falls are precipitated only in the most unusual
hill areas in certain climatic zones, once the duration exceeds one day. In addition the lines
do not represent any continuous event, except possibly for a storm lasting for up to, say,
four hours. The maximum figures for Britain are seen to be about 20-30% of world
maxima, with the lowland easterly part of the country suffering less severely in long
duration storms. The greatest is the Martinstown, Dorset, storm of 1955 in which 280 mm
(11 in) of rain were officially noted in 18.5 hours, with an unofficial estimate at the heart of
the storm claiming 350 mm (14 in).
   Maximum rainfalls vary with the season of the year because thunderstorm intensities
are associated with high sea and air temperatures, However high rainfalls over a day or so
may occur at any time of year wherever the weather system can bring in moist air steadily,
and conditions (often orographic) exist to cause precipitation.
   It is quite possible for many years to elapse without any outstanding maximum rainfall
event and then for several unusual maximums to be clustered close together, probably due
to high concurrent sea temperatures and dominant weather system movement routes.
Many countries have compilations of extreme meteorological events and these should not
be overlooked. Also many national meteorological agencies make available long period
rainfall measurements and duration-intensity-frequency estimates. These are often
adequate for estimating storm magnitudes that can be expected more frequently than
once every 50 years; but possible rarer storms need to be investigated by thorough regional


  2000 "                                                                                                                                                                                                   500OO
                                                                                                                                                                                                           9


  1oo0
     800                                                                                                                                                                            ~'~          /
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~'25000
                                                                                                                                                                                                       20000
                                                                                                                                                                                                           15000
                                                                                                                                                                         9          f
                                                                                                                                                                                                           10000
     400                                                                                              World maximum                         I~/.~                    ~   .&e~l      ,pul~ji~ndia
                                                                                                                                     /..~,~____f~1                              Sprinkling Tarn-
     200                                                                                                       ~           ~                    i                                1954] /                   5000
                                                                                                                                                I                                     I/1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           25OO
                                                                                                                ~\v~                                                 /         /r            !             2O00
                                                                                           ~~ -A ~ "- ~ - ~ - - - ~ C i l a o s~ ' La ,Reunion             //
                                                                                                                                                             ,,Crib Goch 1929 /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A


                                                                                                                                                      I                                      i            - 1500
 ~u 60                                                                                ~/~Bel          . . . . La Reunion              l ~                        ^
                                                                                                                                                               .,.<d". . . . j /             i                   v
                                                                                       ~ ~            9 '                      i    _.~o~ ~           LOCn uuoIcn I~OO/j                     i              1000 =
     40                                                                    ~S~Smethport, Pa. ]                                ~ , ~ L ~               L~           [~            //                              .E
o~                                                                ~ D ' H a n i s , Texas|        /              ,,.~~ber~are                         i972j,'~                .~_            I       __    500
     ~0                                                _,~           ,oc~,o,,w.v.. ]              ~~],~,0~--4                                          /                 ~!
                                                     - *~HoIt MO     II      J J JMartinstown July_ " - ' T ' - -]6-
                                                                                                                  1 9 5 5 ".t'"~~.'~~. ] ~ . . . . - ~ , ~ h i t s t a b l e ]968
                                       ani      / "          ' '            ~ e         ~                                                              Whitstable 1968                                     250
     10         Curtea de Arge,s, Roum~al i ,     Bradford"June 1956 ] J'~-~Glen Sherv~June 1935-'l"-'"~7"~m'"                  ~', J'.. `             i __ i^^_ , I !                                    9200

       I
      1~8
                /
                      J.-"l T,
                       [     ]~~U;:v:~
                          I I ] I
                                        ' i
                                                 :ti J a n ] a i ~
                                                    ] ~    Duns0P/WrayAuQust 1967
                                                                                     1975!
                                           I /~['Langdale & B. . . . . dale August 1966
                                                                                                               i
                                                                                                        Thanet 5epte
                                                                                                                        rnlber197!       \4"'~
                                                                                                                                           ]\ I
                                                                                                                                            |
                                                                                                                                                .... i~ni"" I I I
                                                                                                                                                      [ I . l I. ! .
                                                                                                                                                   Longer durati . . . . inTall . . . . . . . . . . y
                                                                                                                                                                                                           '~
                                                                                                                                                                                                           100
            / ]           I I Wisbech J1"~Eskdalemuir June 1953 I I I                                                                       ]      related to the mean annual rainfall as
            /             I I 1970 Ar~B~176 July 1964                      I J ]                                                                 : is shown for the extremes experienced.
                          ] I L~ "~ JtLevlancl May 1920                    I |                                                                  "'in Britain. However, severe short
              niom
       l zUnionv'ille Mdl  ~       I      /    -    I   I"                 1 ] ]                                                                   thunderst . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   ywhere in
          '       , ' -~ - Preston
                             .   9 , August, 1893 ,     ,                  I 9 ,I ,[                                                               the 'country.. . . .
         1        2      4   6 810        20       40 60         3         6   9 12 18 24                                  5       10           20 30            2           3           6 9 12       24
                            Minutes                                          Hours                                       Days                                                Months
                                                                                             Duration



Fig. 3.3            Maximum recorded world and British rainfalls. World maximum data as given by Paulhus
J. L. H. in Indian Ocean and Taiwan Rainfalls Set New Record. Monthly Water Review, 93(5), 1965,
pp. 331-335 -except for Cherranpunji reported by Dhar O. N. and Farooque, S. M. T. in A Study of
Rainfalls Recorded at Cherranpunji Int Assoc Hydrol Sci, XVIII(4), 1973, pp. 441-450.
84       Hydrology and surface supplies

studies. In the UK the most Up-to-date information is contained in Volume 2 of the Flood
Estimation Handbook, Dec 199943 and shows how rainfall frequency calculations can be
applied to UK catchments, leading to estimation of either the rainfall depth for a given
return period and duration, or of the return period corresponding to a given depth and
duration of rainfall. The parameters of the rainfall frequency model are provided digitally
on CD-ROM(FEH) to a 1 km grid.



3.14                    Maximum runoffs
Peak runoff rates are often difficult to estimate because of the damage occasioned by many
major floods and the debris and sediment brought down by the floodwater. Figure 3.4
gives some recorded maximum runoff data experienced in UK. In lowland areas peak
runoff rates are normally much lower than Fig. 3.4 suggests because of the temporary
storage available in side channels and drains or in adjacent low lying land and the greater
likelihood of drier soil conditions before a storm. For example in the fenland area of
eastern England entire catchments may be drained quite adequately by pumping stations
capable of pumping no more than 13 mm of runoff from their catchment per day. This is
very much less than the maximum precipitation rates shown in Fig. 3.3 where rainfalls up
to about 250 mm in 24 hours can occur in Eastern England, as shown by the plot for
Thanet. These figures are not, however, large compared with experience elsewhere in the
world where ten times higher rates can be experienced.
   Four methods of estimating maximum runoffs are dealt with below, of which the fourth
applies specifically to the UK.


                    I Claughton (30.1 m3/s per km 2)                                                                        1000 acres

         20                 1         2                  4                 6                      8        .... 10               12            14             16           18        20         22         24
                            I         I                   I                [                      I              I                1             I              I            I         1          1          I    - 28
               !~                     | Hoaroak (Lyn)
                                                                                                                                           Records published before 1932      9                                  - 26
    "-   18-
    %               \                 g a r l e y (Lyn)                                                                                    Replies to questionnaire in 1932 o
                                                                                                                                           Data since 1932 x                                                     - 24
                                                             | Oare (Lyn)
         16 -           \        | West Lyn                                                                                                Lynmouth 1953| ]Both approached probable
                            \                                                                                                              Bowland 1967 9 Jmaximum flood intensity                               - 22
                                \\          9Brennand                                         9Roeburn
                                     \ ~ West Lyn                                                                                                                                                                -20        ~
                                        \\                                                            9Wray                                                                                                                 o

               _                           ~(~,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -18 8
 ~o      12
                                                    ",               | West Lyn
                                                |              Lyn                                                           1000-year-flo~:l        intensity curve for
_m       10 -               x Tyne                              "-.,,                                                       a typical Exmoor basin using the                                                     -14        ~
                                                                        ~9 , ,           9        Dunsop                     mean annual flood and a growth
                                                                                     ~'~.~                               /factor   of four, see Section 3.14(2)                      Hindburn                    - 12       ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            r
 m
 ~.~      8 -O
=g                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10   ||
                                                eo                                                                                                                                                    East L y n |
                                                                                                                                                                            East Lyn
 ,,~
 2"  6                                                                                                                                                                         |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8    '~
                                                                                                                                                                                 | East Lyn
 Q.                                        %                         ~-'
                                                                     t'%
                                                                                                                     9
                                                                                                                                 East L ; n "" " ' ~ - - - - --
                                                                                                                                    |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o

                                                    x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       e o8
 --I u                                                   x                       x
                                       O                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                x                x      x                                                  0                                9
~         2 -- x                           xx                                                                                                                                                         xO
                                       x                                                                     x       x                                            x                                    x         -2
                           x x                                   x                                    x                                                                x x
                     x         x                                                                                             x                                                                                   -1
                    ,,~,Jl,l     x                               z                           ~'                  J                    ~                j               I         x    I           I
          0            5     10                                 20                       30                   40                      50             60               70             80          90                  100

                                                                                                      Catchment area: square kilometres (km 2 )


Fig. 3.4                    Flood data in Britain in and since the ICE 1933 Report                                                                                         (Proc ICE, 1960).
                                                                           3.14 Maximum runoffs                                                                  85


(1) Probability analysis of existing flood records
This method plots recorded peak floods on probability paper, as described for the analysis
of droughts in Sections 3.16 and 3.17 below, in order to estimate the probability of
occurrence of a flood of given magnitude. The type of probability paper used is that which
gives a best straight line plot for the recorded floods. Usually the peak flood for each year
of record is plotted; but sometimes all peak flows above a given level are plotted, in which
case care has to be taken to ensure that the events plotted are truly independent and that
they are counted per 'water year' (i.e. summer plus winter) and not per calendar year.
   The method is of limited value because a probability plot of past annual maximum
floods is only useful for return periods up to about twice the length of the period of record.
Thus 30 years record of annual maximum floods cannot be safely used to estimate the
magnitude of a 100-year return period flood. In addition the accuracy of past flood
records cannot be checked and catchment conditions may have altered since records were
taken or may alter in the future.

(2) Use of regional flood probability curves
A different approach applicable world-wide is to use 'regional flood probability curves'
which are published for many regions. These are curves as illustrated in Fig. 3.5. In this
approach the mean annual flood for a given catchment is first obtained from the period of


         10                  Arid and semi-arid basins world-wide                                                           i                               iI
                                                                                                                        I                               I
                             Zimbabwe area < 100 km 2                                                               I                               i
                                                                                                                I                               i
                             Zimbabwe area 100-2500 km 2 ~ . . .
                                                                                                         ,i !                           /   !               /
                                                                                                                                    /                   !
                             Zimbabwe area > 2500 km 2                                                                          /                   /
                             South Africa and Botswana                                                      /!                              /
                                                                                                                                        /
                             > 1250 mm per annum
  -u
   o 7                                                                               I               I                  I
                                                                                 I               I                  I
   o                         Java and Sumatra > 600 km 2                                     I              I
                                                                                         I           I
  tl:l                                                                               i           I
  = 6
  e.-                                                                                                                                   Malawi
  t.--
         5
  E                                                                                                                     f

                                                                                                                                        UK SE
 ,,i-.                                                                                                          f
  o
  a) 4
 .m
 .i-,,



 :~ 3                                                                                                                                   UK NW

                                                                                                           .......,,            ,.-- ---




         0     =i-           I           I       I       I          I       I     I                                   I                                   I
                             2          5       10      20         50      100   200                                500                                 1000
                                             Flood return period (years)
Fig. 3.5 Examples of regional dimensionless flood frequency curves. Source: UK, Law, F. Inst.
Hydrology. Elsewhere, Meigh J. R., Farquharson F. A. K. and Sutcliffe J. V. Hydrological Sciences
Journal, 42(2), April 1997, pp. 225-244.
86   Hydrology and surface supplies


historic record and is termed 'the index flood'. A 'growth factor' (i.e. multiplier) taken
from the appropriate regiol~al flood probability curve is then applied to the index flood to
give the probable magnitude of a flood for a given return period, T, longer than the period
of record. The published regional flood probability curves are derived from analyses of
flood magnitude frequencies for catchments in a region possessing similar characteristics.
In the absence of an adequate historic record, the mean annual flood may be estimated
from quoted formulae (relevant to a particular region) which are based on the catchment
area and its average annual rainfall, together with other parameters as necessary to allow
for other catchment characlJeristics, such as average slope, etc.
   However, in the UK the more recent approach as set out in Volume 3 of the Flood
Estimation Handbook, 43 is to take the median annual flood for a catchment as the 'index
flood', rather than the mean. The Flood Estimation Handbook also introduces the concept
of a 'pooling group' of catchments with similar characteristics to replace geographical
regions. Full details of the method are given in that volume.

(3) Flood estimation derived from maximum precipitation
In this method the maximum precipitation that has occurred, or may occur on a
catchment, is converted to consequent flood flow using either (a) a unit hydrograph
derived from the catchment, or (b) a 'synthetic' hydrograph used to derive the probable
maximum flood under the most unfavourable conditions. The method is of wide
application because use of the unit hydrograph for the catchment permits assessment of
flood flows likely from given rainfall storms; and use of a synthetic hydrograph permits an
estimate to be made of the maximum flood possible under conceivable extremes of rainfall
incidence and catchment conditions. Both approaches are similar, but as the second is
principally used for designing impounding reservoir overflows, it is described in Chapter 5,
Section 5.6.

(4) Flood estimation in UK
The principal guidance for estimating flood magnitudes in UK and Ireland is now
Volumes 3 and 4 of the Flood Estimation Handbook 1999. 43 Alternative methods for flood
frequency estimation for any catchment, gauged or ungauged, are presented. Volume 3
provides statistical procedures intended principally for use for return periods between 2
and 200 years. However it should be mentioned that this statistical procedure should not
be used for assessing the required design capacity of impounding reservoir flood overflow
works, except in the case where no loss of life can be foreseen as a result of a dam breach
and very limited additional flood damage would be caused (see Section 5.6). Volume 4 uses
a unit hydrograph rainfall-runoff method and is applicable to a wider range of return
periods than the statistical approach given in Volume 3. It uses Volume 2 procedures for
estimating depth and duration of rainfall for a given return period, or vice versa. This
permits estimation of floods for return periods between 2 and 10 000 years and derivation
of the probable maximum flood from estimates of the probable maximum precipitation. In
addition up-dated summaries of flood peak data and flood event data are presented in
Appendices to these volumes.
   The procedures set out in Volumes 3 and 4 are relatively complex by reason of the
number of influencing and limiting factors it is advised should be taken into account.
Although the Flood Estimation Handbook provides much useful guidance on the choice
                                              3.15 Introduction and definitions of yield 87

and use of method, the application of the procedures to any particular case in UK or
Ireland is best undertaken by an experienced hydrologist.


Part II Yield of surface sources
3.15    Introduction and definitions of yield
The term 'yield' does not have a precise meaning; its definition varies according to the
context in which it is used. Definitions commonly used are:
(1) 'average yield'- the average abstraction taken from a source over a number of years;
(2) 'failure yield'- the steady supply that could be maintained for a given percentage of
    days in a year (as averaged over two decades or more);
(3) 'historic yield'- the steady supply that could just be maintained through a repetition
    of the worst drought on record;
(4) 'probability yield' - the steady supply that could just be maintained through a drought
    of specified severity and probability;
(5) 'operating yield'- the output that could be deployed with existing system constraints
    and a fixed set of operation rules.
Waterworks practice in many countries has been to adopt definition (4) when planning a
new source, but to move to definition (5) for the final design of some new scheme and also
when reassessing the yield of an existing source. Probability yields, (4), for major sources
where failure would seriously disrupt industry or city life are generally set by the once-in-
100 year drought (1% yield in annual risk terms). A whole supply system is typically
checked out against the once-in-50 year (2%) drought, whilst minor sources may well be
run at 3 or 4% yield if support measures are available. Although the old-fashioned terms
of 'safe' or 'reliable' yield linger on (often equated with a standard 2% yield), they no
longer serve a good purpose. All water authority managers have to be aware that almost
every source has a quantifiable risk of partial failure.
   Standards vary widely, but they generally rise with the economic development of a
country. Developing countries may improve intermittent supplies until they are reliable
through a 20- or 30-year drought, but the advent of industrialisation normally leads to the
need for even greater reliability, e.g. Malaysia and Singapore have accepted the need to
provide city water supplies that are adequate through a 50-year drought. For the majority
of countries the choice of risk must depend upon:
9   the social and economic consequences of supply failures of different magnitudes;
9   the extent to which demand might be lowered (voluntarily or by legislation) during a
    drought crisis;
9   the available reserves elsewhere in the undertaking or the possibility of temporarily
    reducing residual river flows;
9   the uncertainty about population numbers served and unit consumption growth.
Sections 3.18-3.21 provide details of how the probability yields of surface sources may be
assessed. It is often necessary to compute, not simply the yield of an individual source, but
also the amount (usually larger) by which this source raises the yield of the water supply
system of which it is part. In order to determine this increase in system yield the water
engineer responsible for planning any new development must first be able to evaluate the
88   Hydrology and surface supplies

yield of the existing system. Section 3.24 provides guidance on the conjunctive or
integrated use of resources from a number of sources.
   No source or group of sources should be considered as having a fixed yield. Yields may
vary with time as the result of:

9    changes in design standard or accepted methods of yield estimation;
9    an improved understanding of the actual variations in runoff within the source
     catchment as the result of longer records;
9    changes in catchment characteristics or level of development which may increase or
     reduce runoff during drought periods;
9    a change in the amount and/or seasonal distribution of runoff within the catchment
     due to climate change.
In England and Wales the original approach to yield estimation was to adopt historic
yields, followed in the late 1960s and 1970s by a widespread change towards probability
yields based on the analysis of historic or synthetic design drought sequences. The severe
droughts which occurred in parts of England and Wales during 1975/1976, 1984 and in
1995/1996 focused the attention of water authorities on operational requirements to a
greater extent than previously; particularly so on the need to determine how much supply
could be drawn from a source during a drought without running too great a risk of failure
of supply. Although it has always been recognised by water authorities that a reservoir is
not actually operated at a constant drawoff until it empties and that measures to reduce
demand (e.g. the imposition of hosepipe bans, drought orders or other restrictions) are
taken when the contents fall below some critical level, little was published on the subject.
   Added impetus for the development of techniques to determine the operational yields of
sources came with the privatisation of water utilities which has led to growth in the
number of countries where a regulatory agency sets 'levels of service'. Since the
privatisation of the water utilities of England and Wales in 1989 the Director General of
Water (OFWAT) has required the water companies to report to him annually on the levels
of service attained in respect of raw water availability ('DGI'), continuity of supply
('DG3') and water usage restrictions ('DG4'). Under DG1 the water companies must
specify not only the yield of their resource systems but also the estimated frequency of
restrictions imposed on consumers during droughts. The Director General considered a
reasonable reference level for raw water availability would be:

(a) a hosepipe ban on average not more than once in 10 years;
(b) a need for a major public campaign requesting voluntary savings of water on average
    not more than once in 20 years;
(c) Drought Orders imposing restrictions on non-essential use not more frequently than
    one year in 50 on average;
(d) Drought Orders authorising standpipes or rota cuts not more frequently than one year
    in 100 on average.
Such levels of service are not statutory requirements, but are bound to exert an influence
on risk policy. In some case monetary compensation of consumers may be stipulated if
their supply is cut off for longer than a stipulated period for reasons within the supplier's
ability to control. However, it is only in countries where living standards are high that
stipulated levels of service have any meaning. In many countries lack of money for water
                                                                 3.16 River &take yields    89


development means that sources may have to be run to the limit of their current capacity,
periods of shortage being faced when they come.
   In 1995 the National Rivers Authority (NRA) published suggestions for a standardised
method for assessing the yield of sources taking into account issues such as seasonal
demand variations, levels of service and realistic drought management procedures. The
Environment Agency, taking over the work of the NRA, then published in 1996
'Standards of best practice' for groundwater and surface water yield assessment 199644
which were adopted by the water companies in 1997. The methodology proposed for
surface water yield assessment was to 'simulate the realistic operation of the water
resources systems ... over as long a period as possible' on the basis of:
9   historic data (generating flow records back to earlier critical periods if necessary);
9   system capacity;
9   control rules used to initiate demand constraints;
9   the maximum licensed abstraction amount; and
9   'outage', i.e. temporary losses of output due to maintenance, system failure or water
    quality problems.


3.16     River intake yields
Usually abstraction from a river has to be agreed and authorised by some river controlling
authority, or perhaps a department of state or regional government, or by an Irrigation
Authority charged with looking after farmer's interests. In the UK the controlling
authority is now the Environment Agency. Sometimes the authorised abstraction simply
stipulates the maximum that can be taken in 24 hours. This kind of abstraction might be
allowed if the proposed abstraction represents only a small proportion of the lowest flow
in the river. More often the permitted abstraction is partly or wholly proportional to the
river flow or to the amount left in the river, and may vary seasonally. Whatever conditions
apply an analysis of the river flows is the first requirement.

Obtaining river flow data
By far the most reliable estimate of yield is obtained by analysis of a reliable long series of
flow measurements at or near the abstraction point. If the period of record is short, it may
be possible to extend it by correlation with a longer record of flows on a nearby catchment
with similar characteristics of rainfall, topography and geology. Attempts to create a flow
record from rainfall can raise difficulties, although HYSIM, 44 Sacramento, 45 Standford 46
and the IoH's H Y R R O M model 35 have improved the art. Assuming rainfall and potential
evapotranspiration data exist, it may be possible to synthesise a flow record by use of a set
of equations which forms a model of the catchment hydrology. This has to take account of
how the catchment soils, and the aquifer below, take in and drain away water. Average
surface flows have to be adjusted by changes in the soil moisture content stored within the
range of the vegetation roots; and minimum surface flows will depend strongly upon the
chosen recession constant which denotes aquifer drainage. The modelling becomes
complex when the catchment is partly permeable and partly impermeable and, in that case,
is best left for the hydrological specialist to undertake. Computer routines improve the
speed of modelling, but optimising the constants necessarily involved has to be a matter of
experienced judgement and compromise. The program MIMIC from the IoH can
90   Hydrology and surface supplies

automate the optimisation for a rainfall-runoff model, but it is always necessary to test the
validity of a model by comparison of the synthesised flows with measured flows over a
period when daily rainfall is also recorded.
   If, however, there is a reasonable period of recorded runoff concurrent with a long
rainfall record, it can be possible, particularly in high rainfall areas, to correlate the two
records directly, provided both wet and dry seasons are covered. This gives a longer runoff
record.
   Once the flow record has been obtained, a number of adjustments may be necessary to
make the record represent natural flows (see Section 3.9). The adjustments to the gauged
flows may include additions for irrigation consumption and for water turned into canal
feeders or for other abstractions which take water out of the catchment. Deductions may
be necessary for effluent discharges where these originate from water obtained from
outside the catchment. The timing and growth of these changes will need to be ascertained
so they can be applied correctly to the past records. Some abstractions, such as irrigation,
will be seasonal.


Estimating minimum intake yield and its risk of failure
It is preferable to have a flow record for 20 years, taken at or near the point of abstraction.
Weekly records of flow are best used because daily flows may be subject to erratic changes
due to operation of river gates and diurnal changes in abstractions and discharges.
Monthly runoffs may have to be used if weekly or daily records are not available.
   To estimate the intake yield on the basis of risk of failure the following procedure is
recommended.
(1) List the lowest flows in each year of record in order of magnitude, starting with the
    lowest.
(2) Compute the ranking of flows on a percentage basis using the formula

     % rank = ( m - 0.44) x 100%                                                          (3.1)

     where m is the 'rank number' of the flow, e.g. the lowest flow is ranked 'No. 1', the
     next lowest 'No. 2', and so on; n is the total number ranked.
Thus, if there are 23 years of record, the percentage ranking of the lowest flow experienced
will be (1.0-0.44)/(23 + 0 . 1 2 ) - 2.42%
(3) Plot the magnitude of each flow against its percentage ranking on a type of probability
    paper (see below) which best gives straight-line interpretation, as exampled on Fig.
    3.6.
(4) Draw a 'best fit' straight line through the plotted points from which can be read off
    the probabilities of failure of given flows.
Equation (3.1) is used for percentage ranking because the ranking needs to be unbiased in
a statistical sense. If it were taken as m/n x 100%, the largest of the flows listed would
have 100% probability, implying no flow could be l a r g e r - which is an unjustified
assumption. The formula is that which is considered most satisfactory out of several which
have been suggested. It allows for the probable error that a small sample may not be truly
representative of the larger population from which it is drawn.
                                                                             3.17 Choosing appropriate probability paper       91

                                                                           Return period (years)
                                   1.1                           2                 5        10      20              50   100
                       2.2                   I    1     i       1             t     I           T   |       ,

                                         Probability plot'of lowest weekly flow in each year
                                                              1943-1965

                       2.1

                                     x
                                         \
                  ,,   2.0
                                                 x,~

                                                       ,x

                  O                                         \
                 .c_ 1.9                               .,, x       x, x



                  0



                 o
                                                                                                            IIm
                 ~ 1.8
                 ._~


                  L
                                                                                        x
                  e"


                  ~ 1.7
                  I                                                                         \

                  0




                                                                                                        \
                  0~   1.6
                 ..I




                       1.5                                                                                      \
                                                                                                        1944

                             99%  90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20             10      5     3    2     1%
                                                   Gumbel probability (%)
                        (probability that indicated flow will not be exceeded in lowest week of year)


Fig. 3.6 Dry weather flow probability plot.


  The straight line through the plots must avoid implying that some low flow event is
more, or less frequent than appears reasonable. For example the plot labelled '1944' in
Fig. 3.6 has a ranking probability of about 2.4% (1 in 40 year event) but with only 23 years
of record available it is quite possible for it to be '1 in 60 year event', i.e. of 1.5%
probability as inferred from the line which fits the other points well.
  From Fig. 3.6 the probability of failure of different minimum flows can be read off. But
because the points have been plotted for the estimated natural flow, adjustments are
necessary to allow for deductions and additions to the flow caused by other abstracters
and dischargers, both currently and as may be expected in the future.


3.17     Choosing appropriate probability paper
Probability paper is ruled according to the frequency distribution of events assumed by
some probability function. The aim is to choose a probability paper on which the observed
events, when plotted, form a straight line, or approximately so. This aids extrapolation of
the line to estimate frequencies, and indicates how far the events plotted conform to the
92   Hydrology and surface supplies

probability function on which the paper is based. There are various frequency distri-
butions that can be assumed, but the commonest used for analysis of hydrological data are
as follows.
(a) Normal probability paper which assumes normal frequency distribution, i.e. equal
    distribution of events about the mean.
(b) Log-normal probability paper which plots the log of the event magnitude against
    normal frequency distribution. It may give better straight line results than (a) for
    hydrological data, being useful for skewed distributions.
(c) Gumbel (or log-log) probability paper which has ordinates for magnitude of events
    spaced linearly, and abscissa values spaced proportional to -log~ [log~(1 - l/T)],
    where T is the return period of the event. It is principally used to assess the frequency
    of extreme events (hence sometimes called 'extreme probability paper'), such as for
    annual maximum rainfalls or runoffs.
Hydrological data for short time-periods under 1 year is quite often skewed; for longer
time periods it more nearly approaches normal distribution. But where average runoffs are
very low, such as less than 250 mm per annum over the catchment, even long time-period
droughts may be skewed such that the log-normal or log-Gumbel paper may be needed to
obtain straight line plotting. Some guide rules suggested by Hardison 47 as to what type of
paper to use, briefly put, are as follows.
(1) Use normal distribution if the coefficient of variation of flows is less than 0.25.
(2) Use log-normal distribution if the coefficient of skew is algebraically greater than 0.2.
(3) Try Gumbel distribution if neither of the above gives satisfactory straight lines.
The coefficient of variation
              100  standard deviation
         V=
                        mean
The coefficient of skew
                   #3 (3rd moment)
         7~   cube of standard deviation
or, if the skew is not great
              3 ( m e a n - median)
         71   standard deviation
(3rd moment   #3   =   ~-~(x--x,)3/n and standard deviation   =   [~(x-x)2/n] 1/2)

3.18 Yield of direct supply impounding reservoirs
Assessing reservoir storage volume
To assess the storage volume of an existing reservoir, the water surface area at different
levels of drawdown is measured so that a curve of area against water level can be drawn.
Reading areas for each unit of depth from the curve, these can be converted to volumes
and added to give the total volume. Water areas can be measured from aerial or satellite
photographs, or by instrument survey. Areas for at least four water levels are needed.
Often the area increases rapidly for the upper 20-25% of depth, so two of the area
measurements should cover this depth to assist in drawing the area/water level curve
                                                 3.18 Yield of direct supply impounding reservoirs 93

accurately, one being at top water level. To calculate the storage volume for a proposed
reservoir, a contoured map can be used for measuring areas, but the contours need to be
spot checked by instrument survey. Areas are usually taken to the centreline of a proposed
dam, a deduction being made later for the volume occupied by the upstream shoulder of
the d a m - except in the case where fill for an earth dam is taken from a borrow pit within
the proposed reservoir below the intended impounding level.
   The volume/water level curve should be extended to cover surcharge volumes above the
spillway crest because this volume will be required for flood routing calculations.
Allowance must be made for unusable 'bottom water', normally taken as the soffit level of
the lowest existing or proposed drawoff pipe. If silting of an existing reservoir is suspected,
it may be necessary to take some soundings to find the silt level. This can be higher than
the level of the scour pipe which may only draw the silt down locally.


Estimating      historic   yield

A simple graphical method as shown in Fig. 3.7 can be used                        to find the historic minimum
yields for various storage volumes. The catchment runoff is                       plotted cumulatively year by
year. Abstractions of a uniform quantity are then straight                         lines, the maximum vertical
intercept between such a line and the cumulative runoff then                      shows the amount of storage
need to support that uniform abstraction.




              20000




                                                                                            12.9MI/d
                                                                                            (4-year yield)

        >.

        e.
              10000
                                                                            11.1 MUd   (3-year yield)
        r
        ~
        4.a
        :3
        E
        :3
        r
                                                         Storage required for 3-year yield
        r
       4.a                                               (i.e. to maintain 11.1 MUd) = 3200Mr
        0
       p-


                                       '+" "Yield when storage is 2000MI (i.e. 8.8Mr/d)

                                       1933       I--   30 September 1934
                             Critical drawdown
                                   period      _l
                                               vI
                           1933           1934              1935              1936                1937
                                                            Year

Fig. 3.7 Five-year mass flow diagram.
94   Hydrologyand surface supplies

   A more satisfactory and accurate numerical method of finding the historic yield with the
aid of a computer is to use the formula:

                            inflow over a period + storage
        Yield -                                                                                                                      (3.2)
                                length of critical period

  Moving catchment runoff totals for periods of 2, 3, ... , n consecutive months are
summed by the computer starting at months 1, 2, 3, ..., etc. to find the lowest total runoff
for each period. Weekly or daily flows can be used instead.
  The minimum runoff found for each period is plotted on a cumulative minimum runoff
diagram as shown in Fig. 3.8. This, in effect, compresses onto one diagram the driest
segments of the mass curve shown in Fig. 3.7. As a result adjacent points on Fig. 3.8 may
be for entirely different low runoff periods, and the graph will normally have an irregular
shape as the period lengthens to include a second dry season and then a third. By marking
the storage on the negative ordinate and striking a tangent to the plotted curve, the
minimum historic yield can be found from the slope of the line because it expresses the
above eqn (3.2). An advantage of the method is that it is simple to find the minimum yield
for other storage values if, say, enlargement of a reservoir is under consideration.
   Check computations using eqn (3.2) above can be used for greater accuracy in
computing the minimum yield read from the graph in Fig. 3.8. Alternatively the computer
may be programmed to do this and print out the minimum yield for each period of
consecutive months. But the graphical method is a visual aid to understanding the runoff




                 90-                                                                                         ss /        t35%
                                                                                                        11
                                                                                                    /
                                                                                             /J S
         =       .80 -                                                                                                   120
                                              Minimum runoff experienced
        %                                     between 1913 and 1965                 /

         ~--      70-                                                                                                    105    ,w
          0                                                                     /d'/                                            r

          c      60-                                                                                                     90     cC
                                                                            +S; /
         . w


                                                                                                                                al


          "       50 _                    2% probability drought     +/+~,'//                                            75
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                m
                                                                                                                                L
          II1                                                                                                                   @

                                                                                                                                W
          o       40    -


                                                                                                                         6O     ~
          E                                                 /" .~b                                                              m

          ~ 3o                                                                                                           45     ~0
         "E
                                                                                                                                C

                  20                                                                                                     30


                  10                                                                                                     15%


                      ~                          10          15
                                                       Consecutive months
                                                                           20           25                          30

                -- 10 ~- ~Storage ( 103 MI)

                -20


Fig. 3.8 Minimum runoff diagram.
                                        3.18 Yield of direct supply impounding reservoirs 95

pattern and can reveal if there is any unusual feature which may indicate an error in the
computations or in data used.
   Corrections for evaporation from the reservoir water surface may have to be made to the
catchment runoffs. The deduction is minimal for U K impounding reservoirs but in hot
climates it can be large and must be taken into account. Sometimes the evaporation is
more than the catchment inflow, causing a 'negative inflow' to be registered.
   Corrections for compensation water releases from the reservoir may be needed if the
amount to be released is not a fixed amount daily (which can be deducted from the gross
yield), but is required to vary seasonally, or if spates (i.e. increased releases for short
periods) are required. These can be dealt with in the same manner as corrections for
evaporation.

Estimating minimum yield and failure risk by probability analysis
Impounding reservoirs frequently have enough storage to even-out the catchment inflow
for 2 or 3 years, and some for longer. To find the minimum steady yield it is therefore
necessary to find the minimum inflow for periods varying from one dry season to those
which include three dry seasons or more. However, the distribution of rainfall and runoff
for short periods of under 12 months tends to be skewed, whereas that for longer periods
more nearly approaches the normal distribution (see Section 3.17). It is therefore best to
approach the problem of finding the minimum yield in two parts, so that appropriate
probability paper can be used for each.
   For periods of under 1 year containing one dry season, the runoff totals for periods of 1,
2, 3, ..., 11 consecutive months are obtained for each year of record, They are tabulated in
order of magnitude for each period. An example for a 4-month period is given in Table
3.6. The tabulation can cease when the number of runoff totals obtained is nearly equal to
the number of years of record i.e. totals are well above the mean runoff for the period. The
probability, expressed as 'return period', is obtained by eqn (3.1) in Section 3.16 where n is
the number of years of record.
   The totals and their return periods are plotted on log-log paper as shown in Fig. 3.9
which is likely to give straight line results. (If not, some other type of probability paper
must be tried.) The lines drawn through the plotted points for each period must be


Table 3.6    Example of ranking of drought flows for a 4-month period

Runoff   10 3 c u .   m                 Starting month                    Return period years
28.40                                   June 1934                         50
41.50                                   July 1959                         25
50.50                                   June 1949                         16.7
56.30                                   July 1947                         12.5
60.90                                   June 1933                         10.0
64.00                                   June 1921                          8.3
66.90                                   June 1929                          7.1
72.20                                   July 1955                          6.25
72.80                                   April 1938                         5.55
96   Hydrology and surface supplies

                  1000                                           ]               . [ ---
                              |
                                                                                                                                            .
                                                                                                                                            +_   ,.,            I, , !
                                                                                                                                                                +

                                  '+~.'-~.x x P" o               l~"~-'..'~k,~ "                                                            +     +             i           I     -"



                  500




                                  xx'                  r ~'~'t~.__                     _x                  ~ x ~                                       ~                ~ ~                8


                                                             x


                                                                 r~'~'                                                                                      ~ ' ~               ~'*" 6
                  100+
                                                                                 ,~    .                   -        ,               x
          A
                              +


              E               E
                                                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                     x'x,,x,         x                 I               I
          o         50
                                                                                 .     ,.              t                                ~                           ,       .
                                                                                                                                                                                                   C
                                                                                                                                                                                                   O
          ,I"-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                   E
                                                                                                                                                                                       i
          v
                                                                                                                                                                                       I
          1,1-                                                                                                                                                                                 v

                                                                                                                                                       !
                                                                                                                                                                                           3
              0
              C
                              -         ~              :         .               -     :           :       -    ,       ~

          n"

                                                                                                                                                                        i                      Q




                                                                                     9 :oV-.a.
                    10+
                                        ;       --     .         :


                                                                                                                                                   L


                         5,                            i-.       :           -   .         i       , , ,                     .
                                                       i
                                        ,,             L                                   J
                                                                                                           ,,               .....

                                            +          [                                       ,
                                                                                 -         l       i



                                   ,-                  ~         ;           -   ;                                                           L     ,
                                                                                                                                                                            i

                                                                                 ,.                                           _.




                                                                                                                                             t     '            L.,
                                        2              3         4       5                                      10                                         5O                    100

                                                                         Return period (years)


Fig. 3.9 Independent events probability analysis (1-11-month periods).



reasonably positioned; they should show steadily increasing increments of flow as the
period increases to include the first wet season.
   For longer time periods exceeding 1 year, the number of independent period events
grows fewer, and the extent to which periods overlap increases. The periods will also
contain different proportions of wet and dry season runoffs, according to their start date.
This can result in plots that are confusing to interpret. It is preferable therefore to sum
flows for these long periods beginning on a fixed date each year, which is the usual starting
date for the dry season. If inspection shows this does not pick out the lowest flow, an
alternative rank list should be formed with an adjusted start date. The ranking of the
runoffs and calculation of their return period is carried out as described above for the
short periods, again using eqn (3.1) in Section 3.16. The runoffs are plotted on normal
probability as illustrated in Fig. 3.10 with straight lines drawn through the plots for each
period.
                                                            3.19 Yield of a pumped storage reservoir                                                      97

                                                                                                                                                36
       4000

                                                                                                  X                                         J   33


       3500
                                                                  X       X                       (b~r        v                             J30




       3000   ~m



                                                                                                                                                24
 O3
  E
                                                                                                                                                22
       2500                                                               .       .   .       .   .               .    .   .   .   .



 r
  o
  o-

 n"



       2000
                                                                                                                                                16

                                                                                                                                                12
                                                 xX    x                                                      A   x
       1500 . . . . . . . . .   >~   .   .       . .   . .    .       .                                  _~_ . . . . .




       1000



                           I    I            I         I      I               I           I       I      I            I                J             I
              1    2       5    10       20            30    40           50          60          70     80           90               95            98
                                Percentage probability of flow not being exceeded


Fig. 3.10 Overlapping events probability analysis for 12-36-month periods.


   From these diagrams a minimum runoff diagram as Fig. 3.8 can be produced for, say, a
2% risk of failure, as described above when estimating the minimum historic yield. From
this diagram minimum yields for different volumes of storage can be estimated and
checked by calculation.
   A further development possible is to express the minimum yield as a proportion of the
mean catchment flow over the period of record, and the reservoir storage as a proportion
of the mean annual flow volume, as shown in Fig. 3.11. The slope of the curve on this type
of diagram changes as the critical period for minimum yield changes from one dry season
to two dry seasons, etc. However, if daily or weekly runoffs have been used instead of
monthly runoffs the change of slope will be less perceptible.


3.19      Yield of a pumped storage reservoir
To estimate the yield of a pumped storage reservoir it is more accurate to work on the
basis of daily flows. The use of mean monthly flows is inexact and necessitates reducing
the computed yield by an arbitrary amount to allow for part of the flows in excess of the
98   Hydrology and surface supplies

               1.0[ . . . .

                     i
                                      i
                                                                                                             y                   32 ! ]
               0.9       -    Appenine regime
                             (permeable basins) Ji


               0.8

                                                                                     ,to,. il                ~'Y               (impermeablebasins)


               0.7



                              / /
                                                                                                                                                     f
                               ,      i
                                                                                    +" Fernworthy reservoir                                 i   j
                                                                                        Dartmoor England                        /"    f J

                                                                                 Stocks reservoir    ,    /                           i
                                                                                                ,                  j
                                                                                                        j/
                                                                                     _JAppenine regime .
               0.5
                                                                                   J'Southern Italy & Islands
                                                                                     (impermeable basins)~

         4.J
         ne    0.4                                   /
                                                 /                       j 1 ~ S a l t Salt Creek USA                                ~..~--~         ~""--

                                                                  /...."     l                          I~ ~ 4"~Olo~,O~
               0.3                                        i - " ,: "~        !       ~ J "~"        ~                  .




                                                           , t    " X                          I
                                                     .t                    Riet River at Kalkfontain Dam SA                                          i


                                                                                                                           '                         i



                0,./,.'?                  ....
                   i //
                         i /
                                                                                                                           I
                         S
                     0               0.1                  0.2              0.3           0.4          0.5                            0.6            0.7
                                                                                    effective storage
                                                                    Ratio:
                                                                                 mean annual flow volume


Fig. 3.11 Typical yield/storage relationships for direct supply reservoirs.



mean being uncollectable. If some daily flow records are available these may assist in
estimating what allowance should be made; otherwise a frequent practice is to assume that
only 90% of the potential abstraction is possible. The better alternative is to develop a
series of daily flows which represent flows during a period of minimum runoff (see Section
3.20)
   With daily flows available, the basic calculations are as shown in Table 3.7. However,
the sub-calculation required to calculate potential abstraction will depend upon:
(a) the rule(s) laying down the abstraction conditions;
(b) the assumed maximum pumping capacity; and
(c) the time lag between a change of flow and the consequent change of pumping rate.
                             3.20 Producing daily flows representative of a given drought 99

Table 3.7 Pumped storage reservoir calculation(Abstraction condition- two-thirds flow above 30
x 103 m 3/day)

                                                                    Reservoir contents
                       Quantity                       Amount
         Flow to       available     90% pumped       supplied      Net change      In store
         intake        at intake     to store         ex store      of storage      end of day
         1000 m 3      1000 m 3       1000 m 3        1000 m 3      1000 m 3        1 0 0 0 m3
Day      per day       per day       per day          per day       per day        per day
15.8     42.0          8.0           7.2              5.5           + 1.7           151.7
16.8     39.0          6.0           5.4              5.5           -041            151.6
17.8     38.0          5.0           4.5              5.6           -1.1            150.5



The last two factors need careful practical consideration before any computations take
place. With appropriate control equipment and variable speed pumps, the abstraction may
closely follow flow variations; but other arrangements are often adopted. A range of fixed
speed pumps may be started and stopped automatically to give such as 0.5Q, 1.0Q, 1.5Q or
2Q outputs according to their combination. Also if manual operation of pump outputs is
used, the time lag between change of flow and change of abstraction will depend on the
manning pattern and whether variable or fixed speed pumps are used.
   On a simple basis computations can assume an unlimited volume of storage reservoir is
available so the maximum drawdowns occurring each year can be calculated and plotted
on probability paper to find the drawdown probable once in, say, 50 years. But this does
not solve the problem of what yield is available with a reservoir of a lesser capacity than
the maximum drawdown. Calculations then have to proceed for a range of drawoffs to
produce a yield-storage relationship with an associated risk in order to find the yield for a
given storage for any degree of risk. This process is difficult to carry through successfully
unless the flow record is long enough to make the probability plot one for interpretation
only, because points from an unnatural distribution of this type to do not permit confident
extrapolation.
   In view of these difficulties it is more satisfactory to work directly on an estimate of the
daily flows likely during, say, a drought of 2% risk, as shown in Section 3.20 below. It is
then possible to compute the yield of 2% risk according to the size of storage reservoir
adopted and factors (a), (b), (c) mentioned above. A further limiting factor to be taken
into account is the need to ensure refilling of the reservoir after some maximum
drawdown. The most secure provision is to ensure refilling of the reservoir in any single
wet season following a dry season, but this is not always possible. Some pumped storage
schemes accept that refilling will only occur once every few years. Such schemes have to be
tested to make sure they can achieve an initial filling sufficient to meet the anticipated
initial demand.
   All such problems can be dealt with by applying appropriate computer calculations to
the record of daily flows. Among the most useful result is that of finding the most
economic size of pumps to install. Increasing pump capacity beyond a certain level may
increase the yield by only a small amount when flows fall rapidly and critical drawdown
periods are short. On the other hand the need to ensure refilling of the reservoir during a
wet period may be an over-riding factor determining maximum pumping capacity.
100    Hydrology and surface supplies

3.20     Producing daily flows representative of a given drought
The use of daily flows facilitates computation of the minimum yield of a pumped storage
scheme, or of a regulating reservoir as described in the next section. But daily flows are
rarely available for a long enough period to include a 2% drought period. Statistical
techniques exist for generating long sequences of daily flows but it has yet to be shown
they can be made to produce storage requirements matching those required in practice.
However to provide a tool for rapid and consistent testing of a variety of schemes, the
following method for compiling a 2% design drought of daily flows from a record of
monthly flows has proved satisfactory in giving results consistent with experience.
(1) From a diagram such as Fig. 3.9 the 2% minimum runoffs for 1, 2, ..., n months are
    listed as percentages of the long average annual flow (AAF). The monthly incremental
    percentages are derived, and these are rearranged to represent a realistic calendar
    order, retaining the sequence of minimum runoffs for 1, 2, ... months, as shown below.

(A) Driest periods from 2% analysis                     (B) Re-arranged monthly sequence
Period        Runoff % AAF       Monthly increment      % AAF          Month
1 month        0.9               0.9                    5.2            April (as 7th)
2 months       1.9               1.0                    2.5            May (as 5th)
3 months       3.1               1.2                    1.3            June (as 4th)
4 months       4.4               1.3                    1.0            July (as 2nd)
5 months       6.9               2.5                    0.9            August (as l st)
6 months      11.5               4.6                    1.2            September (as 3rd)
7 months      16.7               5.2                    4.6            October (as 6th)



(2) The procedure is continued for 8, 9, 10, ... , n months using such as Fig. 3.10.
    However, when the longer periods of 12, 13, or so months include the wet seasons, it
    will not be found possible to achieve exactly equivalent totals for each of the driest 12,
    13, 14, ..., n month periods; but this will not affect the drought yield in practice..
(3) To convert the monthly flows to daily flows, some record of daily flows (however short)
    is needed. Then, to derive daily flows for, say, April in the table above, the record of
    daily flows is examined to find an April which has a total flow nearest to the total given
    for April in the table above, and its values are scaled down proportionately to give the
    required 5.2% AAF monthly total. Some minor adjustments may be necessary. (i) Daily
    flows from the end of 1 month to the beginning of the next may need adjustment to give
    continuity, retaining the correct totals for each month. (ii) In the absence of any really
    dry months on record, it may be best to apply a straight line recession of flows below the
    historic record to derive the required minimum flow for the month.
(4) The daily flows so produced need checking to see they have a proper balance of spates
    and recessions. To do this the following procedure is used.
    (i) From the historic record, daily runoff deficiencies below some arbitrary value
         (such as 40% of the average daily flow, ADF) are summed monthly and plotted
         against the volume discharge for the m o n t h - as Fig. 3.12.
    (ii) A mean curve is plotted through the points.
                                                                                               3.21 Yield of regulating reservoirs                                  101

         20
                        9Historic record, total daily deficiencies below 40% ADF
                         summed monthly and plotted against total monthly flow
  E
                         Mean line through                        9
 v
 in                   O Deficiencies calculated as 9but for chosen sequence
 a                      of months to form 2% daily hydrograph
 <

 o~
 O
    10

  0
  (D
 ..Q
                 gO
  0
 ,,t.-
  0
                         ~        9
                                      O        9                       9              9
  ~"
  O
         5
 .n
                                           _ ( 3 _. .                          9                9                              9
 , nO
  QD
                             Oo            _"~g.oo                         o              O         9                      9 9
                          _               9 u.,.       -~'-,,,..ff.~       t_U--                         9     9
                          g           -o "             9 _ ..~C.)                              9             .,,       9       9
 m
  t-
                                      o            -     o.o.                                                          .
  t-
  O                                                           9 "                  9o O            0     9         9           9
                                                                       9                  Do            O %w               9
                                                                                                                               O            9    ---------....z__

                                                                                                                                   ooOool        9 o o9 O o O
                                                                                                                                                            9 o
                         I                                       I                             9 ~176176           ~
                        10                                      20                                      30                                  4O
                                                           Monthly total runoff (10 3 m 3)

Fig. 3.12 Check of 2% daily hydrograph. If the 2% daily hydrograph plots lie reasonably about the
mean line for the historic record plots, the sequence of months chosen for the 2% daily hydrograph
is satisfactory.




    (iii) From the 2% hydrograph of daily flows, daily deficiencies summed monthly are
          similarly calculated and plotted against volume for the month.
            If the 2% hydrograph values under (iii) all fall below the line (ii), the 2%
          hydrograph has not chosen a severe enough sequence of months for the longer
          periods of 12, 13, ..., n months, and needs adjusting.
(5) To estimate the amount of adjustment necessary, seasonal deficiencies below the same
    40% arbitrary flow for (say) 8, 20, 32, ... consecutive months (e.g. covering one dry
    season; two dry + one wet; and so on) are taken from the historic record and plotted
    on log-Normal probability paper as Fig. 3.13 and extrapolated to give the 2%
    deficiencies. The difference between the values for 2% probability gives the individual
    seasonal deficiencies, hence the months used for the 2% daily hydrograph can be
    altered to get agreement for each season.
The above procedure may seem complex but is not difficult in practice, the Computer
calculations involved being simple. The method has the advantage that it permits
subsequent work to proceed more rapidly, and direct analysis for the 2% yield of any
given size of reservoir storage is possible.
102    Hydrology and surface supplies

                                                                                                                      44


                                                                                                         9            32

                    400    -
                                                                    0                   t

                                                                                                                      20

                    300    -                                                                                                if)

                                                                                                                            E
                                                                                                                            O

                                                    /oOO/o                      /                                           ~,
         t'O
           E                                  /oO        /              /                                                   .o
                                                                                                                            (D
                    200-
          0


                                     oo/
                                    o/   /...
                                          /  ,
                                               //                                                            _        8
          "0
           0
           i,...
                                                                   ++                           O

                               J o 9. :.~.' ". / +                                  S
           o
           i,....   150    -

                                                               
           0
           >,,
           0
           t""
          ._m       120 -
          .O
           m

          a
                    100    -




                                     :7                        /o
                     90-
                     80-
                                     m
                     70-


                     60-

                                I        I    i v    i    ,,   i            I               i       .,           1. . . .         ,,,I
                     5070       60       50   40     30       20          10            5                        2                   1
                                                          Probability (%)
Fig. 3.13 Seasonal deficiencies plotted on log-Normal probability paper to check 2% daily design
hydrograph.



3.21     Y i e l d of r e g u l a t i n g reservoirs
A regulating reservoir (see Fig. 3.14) impounds water from a catchment A, and releases
water to support an abstraction at some location B downstream, when flows at B are not
sufficient to meet the required abstraction. This means that the yield obtainable is greater
than that provided by catchment A alone. Usually some compensation water has to be
released from A to maintain a flow in the stream below it; and at B various abstraction
conditions can apply. The latter fall into two main groups. One group requires
maintenance of a given flow continuously below the intake B. The other requires
abstraction at B to be fully supported by equivalent releases from A until the natural flow
at B reaches a certain figure; thereafter, as flows at B continue to rise, releases from A are
cut back until the natural flow at B is sufficient to support the whole abstraction. This
procedure preserves the natural low flow regime of the river below B which may be
desirable on environmental grounds.
                                                                 3.21 Yield of regulating reservoirs 103




Fig. 3.14   Regulating reservoir.



   As with pumped storage schemes it is best to calculate minimum yield by first producing
daily flows for, say, a 2% drought period for the natural flows at the intake point B. The
proportion of this flow diverted into the regulating reservoir A will have to be assessed. It
will probably bear a varying relationship to the natural flow at B. The calculation can then
proceed according to the rules laid down for compensation releases at A and the
abstraction conditions at B. An example is given in Table 3.8.
   Some points have to be borne in mind. Releases from the reservoir may need to include
an allowance for evapotranspiration and other losses en route to the abstraction site
(hence the 10% addition to Col. 4 in Col. 5 of Table 3.8). Also the time taken for released
water to travel to the abstraction point must be taken into account. Dependent on the
distance involved, the time lag may range from several hours to 1 or 2 days or more. This
can mean that an increase of release in expectation that flow at the intake will decline may
be wasted if rain should come and increase the flow. Hence a further allowance of 10% or
15% may have to be added to the releases to cover discrepancies between actual and


Table 3.8   Regulating reservoir calculations. Conditions: Abstraction required 28 Ml/day.
Reservoir compensation release 2.0 M1/day. Residual flow below intake 10 M1/day

        (1)               (2)          (3)                 (4)           (5)         (6)
        Natural flow
        at intake         Reservoir    Net flow            Intake flow   Reservoir   Reservoir
Day     units 1000 m 3    inflow       at intake           deficiency    release     change/day   cum.
1       45.0              3.3          41.7                Nil           2.0         + 1.3        + 1.3
2       41.0              3.0          38.0                Nil           2.0         + 1.0        + 2.3
3       38.0              2.8          35.2                0.8           2.9         -0.1         + 2.2
4       35.5              2.6          32.9                3.1           5.4         -2.8         -0.6
5       33.0              2.4          30.6                5.4           7.9         -5.5         -6.1
6       etc.
        Col (3)           - Col ( 1 ) - Col (2)
        Col (4)           = Abstraction + Residual flow - (3) - Compensation release
        Col (5)           = Col (4) x 110% + Compensation release
        Col (6)           = Col ( 2 ) - Col (5)
                                                       J
                                                   f
104    Hydrology and surface supplies

theoretical release requirements. A dry weather recession curve for the natural flow at the
intake, converted into a guiding rule, can be used to aid release decisions. Use of such a
decision rule in U K has shown that actual releases tend to be up to 20% more than the
theoretical requirement in wet years and about 3% more in dry years.


3.22         Catchwater yields
A catchwater is usually a channel which leads water from some remote catchment into an
impounding reservoir. The catchment would otherwise not contribute any flow to the
reservoir. The flow from the catchwater increases the yield of the reservoir, but the
problem is to find out by how much, taking into account the fact that the catchwater is
seldom big enough to take all of the higher runoffs from its catchment.
   The maximum flow the catchwater will carry may need to be estimated by hydraulic
analysis (according to its grade and size, etc.) or by installing a temporary gauge to
measure it directly during some period of heavy rainfall. The catchment runoff will also
need to be estimated on a time basis to produce a flow duration curve for, say, a 2% dry
year, of the type shown in Fig. 3.15, from which can be deduced the amount collectable for
a catchwater of a given size. Figure 3.16 shows a relationship between catchwater size and
percentage of runoff collectable, derived from hydrographs obtained on small British
catchments with average rainfalls of 1500 mm per annum or more. It was found the
relationship checked equally well against data from a tropical catchment, such as one in
Singapore.


                800        =.



                700



         J=
         o 600 -i           0



        ...
         r

                500   -i
         0
                                "   ~             Typical small upland stream
         q
                                :                 (Gelyn, Snowdonia)
         r    9 400

         |

         ~      300
         C
         0
         0
                                    o....
         |
        0"      200
                                             ..

                                              "%..
                       Average                            ..
                100                                            ......... .......
                                                                         9                                  ! Most frequentlYlseen flows
                       daily flow
                                                                                                                                                    i
                                                                                   ............   9         I~                                 v    I
                                                                                                       ..................   9 ............................

                                                                   [            I                  I                    I             l                      l    ...... I ....... 9....
                  0                     10           20           30           40                 50                   60            70                      80         90            100%
                                             Percentage of time a given flow is equalled or exceeded

Fig. 3.15 Flow duration curve 9The curve is derived by measuring the number of hours the stream
flow exceeds given level of flow.
                                                                                    3.23 Compensationflows 105

               100
       "0
        G
        c~ 9 0
        @
        0L_
         @
        4=o
         c      80                      \/-
                                               I
                                              ,,,,v
                                     / ~       September 1966-
                                     v        "August 1967
         ,~ 7o
                              //
         0
         m
         ,..    60            T
        r
         0
         C
         2 5(1
         q




                          l
         C
         c      401
         m




                         /
         o
         |      30
         m
         c
         u      20
         0


                10
                     0        1     2          3      4   5      6    7     8      9     10     11    12   13
                              Catchwater/pumped intake capacity as a multiple of average daily flow

Fig. 3.16 Catchwater transfer curve. The design curve is based upon hourly flow duration data
from four small mountain catchments in England and Wales.


   Because many catchwaters are simply open unlined channels cut to a gentle gradient in a
hillside, they often contribute no inflow during the dry season, and will not contribute flow
to the reservoir until initial precipitation is sufficient to wet their bed and banks to
saturation level. Hence their main contribution to the reservoir is during the wet season.
Although Fig. 3.16 strictly applies to average annual flows, it can be used without too
much error to assess the yield during a given season of the year, provided the appropriate
average daily runoff for that season is used in place of the average annual flow.
   The catchwater contributions to the reservoir are added to its direct catchment inflow,
so that the minimum yields for various consecutive months can be plotted on a diagram
such as Fig. 3.17. This shows the extra yield a catchwater provides for a given reservoir
storage and the change of critical drawdown period.
   In some instances large catchwaters picking up quite large streamflows may be built, in
which case it may be necessary to allow for any minimum flow that must be left in streams.
A simple structure on a stream may allow diversion into the catchwater only when the
streamflow rises above a certain level. The calculations of yield must accordingly take this
into account.



3.23 Compensation flows
Compensation water is the flow that must be discharged below an impounding reservoir to
serve riparian owners and other abstractors downstream. Each country tends to have its
own water law to preserve water rights and the setting of compensation water can involve
much legal dispute. In Britain the compensation water to most impounding reservoirs is
set by some Parliamentary Act. In the early part of the century compensation water was
106    Hydrology and surface supplies

                         32
                                                Catchwateryield
                                                2.2Mild~                        J
                         28
                                   ' ncreasedreservoiryield ~ _ r

                         24        Original reservoiryield ~ / ~ /                  /
                                   Yield including ~ / / / ~            .           ]
                                   adjacentcatchment// /           ]Directcatchmentonly
                    -~ 20
                    >,


                    e
                   ~     ~6


                         12
                                            /"                    i
                                                                  0
                                                                  O3



                              --     10b0      2000
                                                '        3000
                                                          '            4o ; 0           5000
                                                                                         "     6000
                                                 Effective storage (Mr)

Fig. 3.17 Catchwater yield/storage diagram. Note that the figure by each straight line denotes the
length of the critical period in months.


often set at one-third of the gross yield of the reservoir, but this proportion tended to
reduce to one-quarter in later years. 48 Nowadays the compensation water is often required
to be varied seasonally, and extra discharges as 'spates' may be stipulated at certain times
of the year to meet fishing interests.
   The discharge of a fixed amount every day has also been criticised on environmental
grounds as being 'unnatural' and not conducive to the maintenance of fauna and flora
which need periods of varying flow. Considerable progress has been made in quantifying
the water requirements at different stages in the life cycle of fish, invertebrates and
macrophytic vegetation. 49 American studies of physical habitats have been followed in
France, Norway, Australia and U K as a means of defining environmentally acceptable
flows. The software calculations with the PHABSIM program, available in the public
domain, depend on field measurement of river velocity, depth, substrate and tree cover.
They determine ecological preferences and hence seasonal variation of compensation
water, but inevitably not all the requirements can be met if a reasonably economic yield is
to result. Hence some compromise solution has to be found. Nevertheless the technique
gives a far more satisfactory means of engineering water resource developments to achieve
minimum environmental damage.


3.24      Conjunctive use and operation rules
When a water supply undertaking has several sources, conjunctive or integrated use of
them may be a means of improving the total yield or of reducing costs, or both. Thus extra
water from an underground source when the water table is high, or from a river in flood,
may permit a cut-back in the supply from an impounding reservoir with a 2-year critical
drawdown period, enabling it to store more water. Similarly it may be possible to keep
                                              3.24 Conjunctive use and operation rules    107


storages with short critical periods in continuous full use to avoid overspills and so
maximise their supply, at the same time reducing drawoff from a larger reservoir with a
longer critical period, thereby gaining larger reserves to meet critical drawdown
conditions. In a similar fashion it may be possible to reduce costs if the source producing
the cheapest water can be over-run for part of the year, whilst dearer sources are cut
back.50, 51
  However, there can be physical conditions which limit possibilities for conjunctive use,
such as:
(a)   isolation of sources and their supply areas;
(b)   sources supply areas at different elevations;
(c)   incompatibility of one source water with another;
(d)   the need of certain manufacturers to use only one type of water.
It is not always possible to change frequently from one type of water to another,
particularly if one is a 'hard' water from underground and the other a 'soft' river or
impounding reservoir supply. Domestic consumers may complain that the taste and colour
of the water has changed: tea will taste markedly different. Deposits in plumbing systems
and water mains may be affected. Some industrial consumers, having installed water
treatment plant to cope with one type of water, cannot change to a different supply
without long forewarning and considerable expense.
   To ascertain potentials for conjunctive use the whole system of sources needs drawing
out in diagrammatic form, showing:
9     source outputs (average day critical yield; maximum day plant output);
9     impounding or pumped storage capacity; length of critical drawdown period;
9     area served, line of trunk feeders, key service reservoirs fed;
9     elevation of supply at sources; high ground areas in the supply area;
9     any legal or other restrictions on source outputs.
It is helpful to allocate a different colour for each source and its associated works. The
possibilities can then be examined for conjunctive use. Key factors will probably be the
need for major interconnecting mains and extension of treatment works capacity. The cost
of these must be roughly assessed to see whether they are likely to be worthwhile having
regard to the possible gain in yield. Once a possible scheme for conjunctive use has been
clarified, this can be tested by computer calculations on a month-by month basis to check
the combined yield during a chosen critical dry period.
   Operational rules can be developed to assist in judging when storage reservoirs can
supply more than their minimum yield for a given risk. Monthly reservoir drawdowns over
a long period of simulated inflows can be used to develop a control curve as shown in Fig.
3.18. This shows the minimum storage required at the beginning of every month to ensure
maintenance of a given supply rate. To produce a control curve of this type involves
calculating backwards in time, from an assumed zero storage at the end of each month of
the year. By applying this process to droughts of every duration, it is possible to locate the
maximum storage required at any time of the year to ensure the reservoir never quite
empties at the assumed abstraction rate. Different abstraction rates will require different
control curves. A 'family' of such curves is therefore produced, each for a different level of
supply. Hence reference to the curves and a storage/water level chart, can show whether
the water level in the reservoir permits an increased abstraction or not.
108    Hydrology and surface supplies


                                                TWL (reservoir full)
                          12                                               ...... --1




                               /                --K
                      0




                                                                   "\//
                     .~

                      c    6

                     0
                           4                                   i       :




                           2
                               Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec


Fig. 3.18 Reservoir control curve. The control line represents the level to which the reservoir could
have been drawn down during any month in the period 1910-64 (55 years) and still maintain a total
outflow of 46 M1/day to supply and 13 Ml/day to compensation. When the contents are above the
control line the draw off may exceed 46 M1/day to supply (up to the limit of the treatment works
capacity). If the contents fall to or below the control line the draw off must be limited to 46 M1/day
to supply.


   Reservoir control curves have to be based on the most severe droughts historically
recorded, or on a 'design' drought of specified probability. Neither can forecast the
magnitude of some drought. Hence a control curve tends to be of more practical use in
permitting extra water to be supplied when storage is high, than when storage is low. If a
reservoir is three parts empty with the dry season not yet ended, most engineers would
attempt to restrain demand, in preference to relying solely on a 'control' curve which poses
a significant risk that it might not apply to what the future may bring.


3.25      Use of computer models for hydrological computations
A wide variety of computer software programs are available for undertaking hydrological
computations. The most common tasks they are used for comprise:
9     statistical analyses of precipitation and flow data;
9     computation of surface and/or underground flows through a catchment;
9     hydraulic calculation of channel flows, flood analyses and reservoir routing;
9     simulating water quality changes down channel flows allowing for time of travel.
Initial parameters entered into the computer form a 'model' of the system to be analysed.
Hence fieldwork may be necessary to obtain the necessary data, and the model should be
tested to see it replicates reasonably accurately conditions that have been experienced.
   'Dynamic' programs trace the effect of changing inputs with time, such as rainfall, on
catchment flows. Other models can be 'single event' or 'spatial', such as tracing the surface
water profile down a river course under steady-state flow conditions. A computer program
breaks down a problem into a lengthy series of relatively simple steps of calculation,
pursued in logical order, using 'feedback' connections where the result of one step modifies
an earlier calculation. The procedure is the same as that adopted for manual calculation
                                                     3.26 Rainwater collection systems    109


and uses the same theoretical or empirical formulae. The exception is the assessment of
groundwater flow, which is through a three-dimensional porous medium, for which the
computer uses the finite element or finite difference mathematical approach (see Section
4.5) - a method that would be impracticable by hand.
   Software packages vary according to the size of problem to be handled and the extent
and complexity of the sub-calculations involved. For example, evapotranspiration values
may be simple approximations, or be worked out using one or other of the formulae
mentioned in Section 3.6. The more complex programs are suited for the use of specialists
or researchers, and are often modified by the user to suit particular conditions applying.
Others are 'easy-to-use' packages which do not require the user to have a knowledge of the
computer operating system. They cater for the normal range of hydrologic inputs
required, but may not be modifiable by the user to incorporate some unusual feature.
Packages are often combined, so that a wider range of inter-related phenomena can be
handled in one program, such as the combination of computed flows with consequent
water quality changes. At a simpler level much can be achieved by computer spreadsheet
water-balance models written for each new task.
   A good guide to the types of programs available, with addresses for their procurement,
appears in Handbook of Hydrology, published by McGraw-Hill, 1992. The Hydrology
Handbook published by the American Soc. Civil Engrs, 345 East 47th Street, New York,
1996, also has information on models and their application. Programs are available from
many s o u r c e s - universities, scientific institutions, specialist government departments,
consulting engineers and so on. Some programs are free, others need to be purchased.
Four useful sources of hydrological programs are:
   Worm Meteorological Organization, HOMS Office, Case Postale No. 2300, Geneva 2,
Switzerland.
   The Institute of Hydrology, UK, Wallingford, Oxfordshire OX10 8BB.
   US Geological Survey, WRD, 415 National Centre, Reston, VA 22092.
   US Army Corps of Engineers, Hydrologic Engineering Center, 609 Second Street, Davis,
CA 95616-4587.
   The catalogues of commercial firms supplying software, such as that of Scientific
Software Group, P.O. Box 23041, Washington DC 20026-3041, are also useful since they
give details of a range of programs they can supply from many organisations and
establishments.


3.26    Rainwater collection systems
Rainwater tanks collecting runoff from roofs or impervious surfaces form a useful source
of drinking water where daily rainfall is frequent, as in equatorial climates and in the
monsoon periods of monsoon climates. The supply is particularly useful if local sources
are polluted because only simple precautions are necessary to keep the rainwater free of
pollution.
   For individual house rainwater collecting tanks the principal constraint is usually the
size of tank which can be afforded or which it is practicable to install. Tanks up to 600 or
800 litre can generally be made of one piece material and are transportable. Tanks of 1000
litre capacity are usually more economical if constructed in situ. 'Ferrocement' tanks made
of layers of cement rendering applied to wire mesh are particularly economical if the
requisite skill to construct them is available or can be trained. Otherwise simple reinforced
110   Hydrology and surface supplies

concrete tanks can be constructed. Such tanks have the advantage they are repairable if
they leak or can be rendered inside if poorly constructed. Tanks made of plastic plates
bolted together tend to fracture under the repeated bending caused by changing water
levels and the fracture is usually unrepairable. Steel tanks made of plates bolted together
tend to rust at the joints and are difficult to repair.
   Roof areas are not usually a principal constraint provided houses are one storied. There
is usually at least 20 m 2 of roof area which can discharge to guttering along one side of the
roof with, perhaps, a return along another side. Traditional roofing for low income
communities is galvanised iron, but sometimes asbestos cement roofing will be found or
the more modern types of roof will be tiled or asphalted. With house occupancies varying
from six to 12 people, about 1F-2   1 ~1 m : of developable roof area per person is usually
available.
   Daily rainfall records need to be tabulated. The daily runoff to the collecting tank is
usually calculated according to the roof area available per person. The runoff is taken as
95% (daily rainfall- 1 mm), the 1 mm deduction being for initial evaporative loss on the
roof, and the 95% allowing for guttering overspill. Some field tests need to be undertaken
to assess the size of guttering required, where itshould be positioned relative to roof eaves,
and what allowance should be made for overspill during intense rainfalls. Local practice
and experience, where available, can act as a guide. Although UK rainfall conditions are
not likely to apply overseas where roof rainfall collection systems are mainly used, some
UK publications can be of assistance. 52'53 If large roofs, e.g. of commercial premises, etc.
are used, the use of siphonic outlets to guttering may achieve economy in downpipe sizing.
The siphons become primed by air-entrainment of initial flows, thus making the whole
head between gutter outlet and the bottom of the downpipe available for the discharge,
reducing the size of downpipe required. 54'55
   Calculations proceed by using trial abstractions over typical recorded dry periods,
commencing when the collecting tank can be assumed full. It is convenient to work on a
units of roof area and storage available per person, sizing this up later according to the
 average number of people per household for which the design should cater. Operating
 rules for householders should be simple, e.g. either a fixed amount 'X' per person per day,
 or 'X' reduced to ' i x ' when the tank is half empty. An appropriate minimum amount
 drawoff rate would be 2.5 litres per person per day, sufficient for drinking and cooking
 purposes. The theoretical tank size so calculated needs to have allowances added to it for
 'bottom water' and 'top water'. The top water allowance- for example 6 in or 150 m m -
 means the householder does not have to restrict his or her take until the water level is that
 much below overspill level. The level can be marked clearly inside the tank. The advised
 abstraction 'X' has to be expressed in terms of commonly available vessels. A standby
 supply must also be available to afford householders a supply when longer dryperiods
 occur than assumed for the calculation and also for rescuing householders who run out of
 water for any reason.
    Although house tanks will not give a sustainable amount in dry seasons of the year, they
 will be well used in the wet season because they relieve the householder of having to carry
 water from a distance. The rainwater in the tanks does not need to be chlorinated, but
 tanks do need cleaning out annually. Mosquito breeding in tanks can prove a nuisance in
 some climates and specialist advice may need to be sought as to how to control it.
                                                                        References   111


References
    Morris D. G. and Heerdegen R. G. Automatically Derived Catchment Boundaries
    and Channel Networks and their Hydrological Applications. Geomorphology, 1(2),
    1988, pp. 131-141.
    Mansell-Moullin M. The Application of Flow-Frequency Curves to the Design of
    Catchwaters. JIWE, 20, 1966, pp. 409-424.
    Simpson R. P. and Cordery I. A Review of Methodology for Estimating the Value of
    Streamflow Data. Inst Engrs Aust Civil Eng Trans, 24, 1987, pp. 79-84.
  . Tor S. M. Strategies Towards Sustainable Development in Nigeria's Semi-Arid
    Regions. JCIWEM, June 1998, pp. 212-215.
    Binnie & Partners, Binnie News, Nov. 1967, pp. 37-38.
    United States Geological Survey. Techniques of Water Resources Invest.igations of the
    USGS, Book 3. Chapters A6-A8 on stream gauging procedure. US Government
    Printing Office, Washington, 1968.
    BS 3680: Measurement of liquid flow in open channels. Part 4A: Method using thin
    plate weirs, BSI, 1981 as amended 1987.
    Bos M. G. (ed.). Discharge Measurement Structures. ILRI Publication 20, 3rd edn.
    Reprinted 1990.
    Herschy R. W., White W. R. and Whitehead E. The Design of Crump Weirs.
    Technical Memo No. 8, DoE Water Data Unit, 1977.
10. Ackers P., White W. R., Perkins J. and Harrison A. J. M. Weirs and Flumes for Flow
    Measurement. John Wiley, Chichester 1978.
11. United States Geological Survey, Techniques of Water Resources Investigations of the
    USGS. Book 3, Chapter A16, Measurement of discharge using tracers. US
    Government Printing Office, Washington, 1985.
12. BS 3680: Measurement of liquid flow in open channels. Part 3E." Measurement of
    discharge by the ultrasonic (acoustic) method. BSI, 1993.
13. Sargent R. J. and Ledger D. C. Derivation of a 130 Year Run-off Record from Sluice
    Records for the Loch Leven Catchment, South-East Scotland. Proc ICE Water,
    Maritime and Energy, 96(2), 1992, pp. 71-80.
14. World Meteorological Organisation, Guide to Meteorological Instruments and
    Observing Practices No. 8, 1983 edn.
15. Hudleston F. A Summary of Seven Years Experiments With Rain Gauge Shields in
    Exposed Positions 1926-1932 at Hutton John, Penrith. British Rainfall, 1933, pp.
    274-293.
16. Institution of Water Engineers, Report of Joint Committee to Consider Methods of
    Determining General Rainfall Over Any Area. Trans IWE XLII, 1937, pp. 231-299.
17. Creutin J. D. and Obled C. Objective Analysis and Mapping Techniques for Rainfall
    Fields: An Objective Comparison. Water Resources Research, 18(2), 1982, pp. 413-
    431.
18. World Meteorological Organisation. Measurement and Estimation of Evaporation
    and Evapotranspiration. Note No. 83. WMO Geneva 1966.
19. Doorenbos J. and Pruitt W. O. Crop Water Requirements. Irrigation and Drainage
    Paper 24. FAO 1976.
20. Lapworth C. F. Evaporation From a Reservoir Near London. JIWE, 19(2), 1965, pp.
    163-181.
112 Hydrology and swface supplies

21. Rodda J., Downing R. A. and Law F. M. Systematic Hydrology. Newnes-
     Butterworth, Oxford, 1976, pp. 88-89.
22. Penman H. L. Vegetation and Hydrology. Technical Communication N.53.
    Commonwealth Bureau of Soils, Harpenden, 1963.
23. McCulloch J. S. G. Tables for the Rapid Computation of the Penman Estimate of
    Evaporation. East African Agricultural and Forestry Journal, XXX, No. 3 1965.
24. Wilson E. M. Engineering Hydrology, Macmillan, Basingstoke, 4th Edn. 1990.
25. Dean T. J., Bell J. P. and Baty A. J. B. Soil Moisture Measurement by an Improved
     Capacitance Technique. Part 1. Sensor Design and Performance. J Hydrology, 93,
     1987, pp. 67-78.
26. Calder I. R. Evaporation in the Uplands. John Wiley, 1992.
27. Bosch J. M. and Hewlett J. D. A Review of Catchment Experiments to Determine the
     Effects of Vegetation Changes on Water Yield and Evapotranspiration. J Hydrology,
     55.
28. Kirby C., Newsom M. D. and Gilman K. Plynlimon Research: The First Two
     Decades. Report No. 109, Institute of Hydrology, Wallingford, 1991.
29. Gustard A., Roald L. A., Demuth S., Lumadjeng H. S and Gross R. Flow Regimes
    from Experimental and Network Data (FREND) I and II. Institute of Hydrology,
     Wallingford.
30. Ege H. D. Management of Water Quality in Evaporation Systems and Residual
     Blowdown. Water Management by the Electric Power Industry. University of Texas,
     Austin, TX, 1975.
31. Thompson N., Barrie I. and Ayles M. The Meteorological Office Rainfall and
     Evaporation Calculation System." MORECS. The Meteorological Office, London,
     1981.
32. Smith L. P. and Trafford B. D. Climate and Drainage. MAFF Technical Bulletin 34.
     HMSO, London, 1975
33. Gustard A., Bullock A. and Dixon J. M. Low flow estimation in the United
     Kingdom. Report No. 108, Institute of Hydrology, Wallingford, 1992.
34. Manley R.E. Simulation of flows in ungauged basins. Hydrolog Sci Bull, 3, 1978,
     pp. 85-101.
35. Blackie J. R. and Ecles C. W. O. Lumped Catchment Models, in Hydrological
     Forecasting (eds Anderson M. G. and Burt T. P.), Chapter 11. John Wiley & Sons,
     Chichester, 1985.
36. Holford I. The Guinness Book of Weather Facts and Feats. Guinness Superlatives Ltd,
     London, 1977.
37. Tabony R.C. The Variability of Long Duration Rainfall Over Great Britain, Scientific
     Paper 37, Meteorological Office, London, 1977.
38. Enex/Drainage and Irrigation Dept. Magnitude and Frequency of Low Flows in
     Peninsular Malaysia. Hydrological Procedure No. 12, Malaysia, 1976.
39. Gustard A. and Gross R. Low flow regimes of Northern and Western Europe, Proc
     FRIENDS in Hydrology Conf. IAHS Publ, 187, p. 205, 1989.
40. Darmer K. I. A Proposed Streamflow Data Program for New York. USGS Water
     Resources Division, Open File Reports, Albany, New York, 1970.
41. Low Flow Studies Report. Institute of Hydrology, Wallingford, 1992.
42. Hydrometric Register and Statistics 1991-95. IOH/British Geological Survey,
     Wallingford, 1998.
                                                                        References   113

43. Flood Estimation Handbook, Vol. 1 -Overview; Vol. 2 - Rainfall Frequency
    Estimation; Vol. 3 - Statistical procedures for Flood Frequency Estimation; Vol. 4 -
    Restatement and Application of the FSR Rainfall-Runoff Method; Vol. 5 -
    Catchment Descriptions. Institute of Hydrology, Wallingford, Dec. 1999.
44. Water Resources and Supply: Agenda for Action, DoE 1996. Annexes D and E
    contributed by Environment Agency.
45. Codner G. P. and Ribeny F. M. J. The Application of the Sacramento Rainfall
    Model to a Large Arid Catchment in Western Australia, Proc Hydrology Symposium
    1976, Institute of Engineers, Australia.
46. Fleming G. Computer Simulation Techniques in Hydrology, Elsevier, Oxford, 1975.
47. Hardison C. H. Storage to Augment Low Flows, Paper 8, Proc Symposium on
    Reservoir Yield, WRA, 1965.
48. Gustard A. et al. A Study of Compensation Flows in UK, Report 99. Institute of
    Hydrology, Wallingford, 1987.
49. Bullock A., Gustard A. and Grainger E.S. Instream flow requirements of aquatic
    ecology in two British rivers, Report 115, Institute of Hydrology, Wallingford, 1991.
50. Lambert O. A. An Introduction to Operational Control Rules Using the Ten
    Component Method, Occasional Paper No. 1, British Hydrological Society, 1990.
51. Parr N. M. et al. (eds). Water Resources and Reservoir Engineering, British Dam
    Society, Thomas Telford, London, 1992, pp. 11-40.
52. Code of Practice BS 6367:1983 Drainage of Roofs and Paved Areas.
53. Sturgeon C. G. (ed.). Plumbing Engineering Services Design Guide. Inst. of Plumbing,
    1983.
54. May R.W.P. Design of Gutters and Gutter Outlets. Report IT 205, Hydraulics
    Research Station, 1982
55. May R. W. P. The Design of Conventional and Siphonic Roof Drainage Systems.
    JCIWEM, Feb. 1997, pp. 56-60.
                  4
          Groundwater supplies

4.1     Groundwater and aquifers
The most prolific sources of underground water are the sedimentary rocks, sandstones and
limestones, the latter including the chalk. They have good water storage and trans-
missivity, cover large areas with extensive outcrops for receiving recharge by rainfall, and
have considerable thickness but are accessible by boreholes and wells of no great depth.
   The porosity of a rock is not an indicator of its ability to give a good water yield. Clays
and silts have a porosity of 30% or more, but their low permeability due their fine grained
nature makes them unable to yield much water. Solid chalk has a similar high porosity and
low permeability, but is a prolific yielder of water because it has an extensive network of
fissures and open bedding planes which store large quantities of water and readily release
it to a pumped well or borehole. Limestone, on the other hand, is so free draining that,
though it may yield large quantities of water in wet weather, the recharge rapidly drains
away in dry weather when the yield is low.
   In England the main aquifers used for public supply 1 comprise the following:
(1) The Chalk and to a lesser extent the Upper and Lower Greensands below it, both of
    the Cretaceous Period.
(2) The Bunter Sandstones and to a lesser extent the Keuper Sandstones of the Triassic-
    Permian Period.
(3) The Magnesian and Oolitic Limestones of the Jurassic Period, and to a lesser extent
    the Carboniferous Limestones and Millstone Grits of the Carboniferous Period.
The chalk and greensands, and the limestones of the Jurassic Period are widely spread over
southern and eastern areas of England; the Triassic sandstones and Carboniferous lime-
stones occur in the Midlands. Similar formations occur in northern France and across the
lowland northern plains of Europe, where they give good yields.
   On a world-wide scale, some of the very largest aquifers are listed in Table 4.1. The most
extensively used formations for water supply are the following.
(4) The shallow alluvial strata, sands and gravels of Tertiary or Recent age, which are so
    widespread that, despite their varying yields, they form the principal source of supply
    in many parts of the world because of the large areas they cover and ease of access.
(5) The many areas of Mesozoic to Carboniferous age sedimentary r o c k s - chalk,
    limestones and sandstones as listed under(1)-(3) above which mostly give good yields,
    subject to adequate rainfall.
(6) The hard rock areas of Paleozoic to Cambrian or pre-Cambrian age including igneous
    and metamorphic rocks which are relatively poor yielders of water unless well
                                                               4.1 Groundwater and aquifers         115


Table 4.1   Major aquifer systems world-wide

                                                   Estimated    Estimated     Estimated
                                      Basin area   reserves     recharge      use
                      Strata          (km 2)       (MCM)        (MCM/year)    (MCM/year)      Source
 Nubian Aquifer       Cambrian & 2.0 m             150 m        small         460             (a), (b)
 System Egypt,        Tertiary
 Libya, Chad,
 Sudan
 Great Artesian       Triassic-       1.7 m        20 m         1100          600 (1975)      (c), (d)
 Basin Australia      Cretaceous
                      sandstone
 Hebei Plain          Quaternary     0.13 m        -0.75 m      -35 000       10 000          (c)
 China                alluvium
Algeria, Tunisia,     L-U            0.95 m.       v. large     v. small       > recharge     (c), (e)
N. Sahara             Cretaceous
                      alluvium
 Libya                Cambrian-       1.8 m        24 m         small          > recharge     (f)
                      Cretaceous
                      sandstones
Ogallalah             Jurassic       0.075 m       0.35 m       60            3400            (g), (h)
Aquifer USA           sediments
Dakota Ss             Upper           > 0.4 m      > 4.0 m      > 315         725             (h), (i)
Aquifer USA           Mesozoic
                      sandstones
Umm er Radhuma        Tertiary-       > 0.25 m     0.025 m      1048          n.a.            (j)
Aquifer Saudi         Palaeocene
Arabia                sediments

(a) Idris H. and Nour S. Present groundwater status in Egypt and the environmental impacts. Env
Geol Wat Sci, 16(3), 171-177, 1990.
(b) Lamoreaux P. E. et al. Groundwater development, Kharga Oasis Western Desert of Egypt: a
long term environmental concern. Env Geol Wat Sci, 7(3), 129-149, 1985.
(c) Margat J. and Saad K.F. Deep-lying aquifers; water mines under the desert. Nature Res, 20(2), 7-
13, 1984.
(d) Habermehl M. A. The Great Artesian Basin, Australia. B R M J Austr Geol Geophys, 51(9), 1980.
(e) De Marsily G. et al. Modelling of large multi-layered aquifer systems: theory & applications. J
Hydrol 36, 1-34, 1978.
(f) Mayne D. The Libyan Pipeline Experience, Brown & Root Ltd., Leatherhead, UK 1991.
(g) American Society of Civil Engineers Groundwater Management. 1972.
(h) Johnson R. H. Sources of water supply pumpage from regional aquifer systems. Hydrogeol Jnl,
5(2), 54-63, 1997.
(i) Helgeson J. O. et al. Regional Study of the Dakota Aquifer, Ground Water 20(4), 1982, pp. 410-414.
(j) Bakiewicz V. et al. Hydrogeology of the Umm er Rhaduma aquifer Saudi Arabia, with reference
to fossil gradients. Q J Geol, 15, 105-126, 1982.


    fractured and fissured, but which must perforce be used because they occupy large
    areas of the continents where alternative supplies are scarce.

Over vast areas of Africa and India reliance has to be placed on the relatively small yields
which can be d r a w n from the ancient hard rocks under (6) above. The Deccan Traps of
116   Groundwater supplies

India, 2 for example, cover almost 0.5 million km 2 and are used by a large rural population.
Across Africa almost one half of the continent is underlain by hard basement rocks, and
although these provide relatively poor yields, they are the main source of underground
water for the rural populations. 3'4 From such rock formations, supplies typically in
the range 10-100 m3/day per boring are sufficient for basic domestic use by small
populations, but are normally inadequate for any large-scale agricultural or manufactur-
ing development.
   The advantages of groundwater are substantial. The wide area typically occupied by
aquifers makes it possible to procure water close to where it is required. Many aquifers
provide water that requires no treatment other than precautionary disinfection- though in
many developing countries even disinfection is not adopted. The cost of a borehole is
relatively modest if water is at no great depth; and the supply can be increased to meet
additional demands by drilling additional boreholes so far as the local groundwater
resources permit this.
    But these advantages often give rise to consequent disadvantages through failure to
realise the need to apply measures to conserve and protect underground supplies. For
example, the large cities of Bangkok, Jakarta, Calcutta and Manila were initially able to
gain supplies by drilling and pumping from boreholes close to, or even within their urban
areas. But in each case the benefits have been largely reversed by urban coverage reducing
the recharge of the aquifer. Subsidence can result from over-pumping. Intensive pumping
of groundwater from the thick series of alluvial aquifers beneath Bangkok has resulted in
their partial dewatering and consolidation, giving rise to ground subsidence at the surface.
    There is often a failure to monitor a groundwater resource and the effects of overdraw
remain unseen until the resource is seriously depleted. The European Environment Agency
estimates that about 60% of European cities with more than 100 000 inhabitants are
located in or near areas with groundwater over-exploitation, as shown by recent severe
problems of supply in parts of Spain and Greece. 5 There is also commonly a failure to
understand the importance of aquifer protection, which is particularly important in urban
areas overlying an aquifer where poor sanitation methods or badly maintained sewerage
systems result in many shallow aquifers becoming thoroughly polluted.
    Sometimes the physical or chemical quality of a groundwater can act as a constraint on
its use. Proximity to the sea poses a salinity hazard affecting boreholes in coastal areas and
on oceanic islands. Development of freshwater resources then requires great care because,
if seawater is once drawn in, it may prove difficult or impossible to reverse the process (see
 Section 4.15). In areas where water circulates to great depth, the groundwater which
eventually emerges at the surface may be warm or even hot. Whilst air cooling methods
can be applied, the warm or hot groundwater may have taken up an undesirably high
 concentration of minerals or gases which may be difficult to deal with.
    Cessation of large scale abstractions of groundwater can bring rising groundwater levels
 which present many serious problems. In Paris, London, Birmingham and Liverpool,
 rising groundwater levels are occurring because of reduced industrial demand for water
 consequent upon the demise of the major water-consuming industries and their
 replacement by other types of manufacturing which have no large water demand. These
 rising groundwater levels threaten the flooding of tunnels and deep basements, can cause
 chemical attack on the structural foundations of buildings, and decrease the ability of
 drainage systems to dewater surface areas, Similar rising groundwater levels can occur
 where excessive irrigation is applied or where large scale river impounding schemes for
                                 4.2 Yield uncertainties and types of abstraction works       117


hydro-power development or irrigation raise water levels upstream, causing soil
salinisation and sometimes land-slope instability.


4.2       Yield uncertainties and types of abstraction works
The yield of a well or borehole is dependent on the following.
9     The aquifer properties of the strata from which the water is drawn, and the thickness
      and extent of the aquifer and area of its outcrop.
9     The extent to which the well or borehole intercepts a water storing and transmitting
      network of fissures, cracks and open bedding planes in the aquifer.
9     The depth, diameter and construction details of a borehole or well, and the screen type
      or gravel packing used.
9     The extent to which the abstraction affects other water users drawing water from the
      same aquifer or using surface water fed by spring discharges from the aquifer.
Uncertainty arises from the fact that any borehole intercepts only a small volume of the
strata so that, in aquifers where the water is only able to move through open fissures or
bedding planes, there is always a possibility that a hole intersects no fissures or planes
large enough to give a good supply. Many cases can be quoted where a boring in one
location gives a poor yield, and a second boring only a few feet away provides a yield four
or five times as much. Clearly the more fissures or cracks that exist, the more is it likely
that a reasonable yield will be obtained. Thus boreholes are favoured in the well-fissured
layers of the Upper Chalk or in the looser Pebble Beds of the Bunter Sandstone. In loose
gravels and sands there is less uncertainty as to the yield of a boring.
   Estimation of the probable yield of a proposed underground development is difficult. A
knowledge of the hydrogeology in the area, and records of what other boreholes or wells
in the same or similar formation have yielded, can be of help. But where little is known
about the hydrogeology of a proposed borehole site, it is advisable to sink a 'pilot hole' on
the site, usually about 150 mm diameter, to provide information from the samples
withdrawn. If the results seem promising and it is decided to adopt the site, the pilot hole
can be reamed out to form a borehole large enough to accommodate a pump. However it
must be borne in mind that, if the small pilot bore appears to give a good yield for its size,
this may not be a reliable indicator that a larger yield should be obtainable from a larger
hole in the same or at a nearby location. A suggested method of approach for locating a
borehole for optimum yield, using mapping data from lineations, bedrock geology,
vegetation and drainage to produce probabilities of yield, and used to assist rural
groundwater development in poor aquifers, has been described by Sander. 6

Need for hydrogeological survey
                                                                                          /

Where an aquifer is already supporting abstractions and feeds rivers and streams flowing
through environmentally sensitive and recreationally important areas, it can be essential to
conduct a full hydrogeological investigation of an aquifer before a new abstraction is
proposed. An environmental assessment of the possible effect of a proposed new
abstraction for public supply is often a requirement of an abstraction licensing authority
or government department. A hydrogeological investigation may also be needed to make
sure possible sources of pollution on the catchment, such as leachates from solid waste tips
or abandoned contaminated industrial sites, will not render water from a proposed
118   Groundwater supplies

abstraction unsuitable for public supply. The work involved in such an investigation may
be extensive and is best carried out by an experienced hydrogeologist who will be familiar
with the range of geophysical and other techniques available (see Section 4.7).

Types of abstraction works
The range of abstraction works which are used for various different ground conditions
include the following.
(1) Boreholes can be shallow or deep, sunk by different methods, and have many different
    screening methods used to prevent the ingress of unwanted fine material and keep the
    bore stable, or to draw upon the best quality or quantity of water available
    underground.
(2) Large diameter wells, 15-25 m deep, can have a boring sunk from their base to
    considerable depth to intercept some main water-bearing strata, the well lining being
    sealed to prevent entry of surface waters.
(3) Although not built now, many older wells have an adit or adits driven from it (see
    Plate 1); an adit being a small (1 m wide by 2 m high) unlined tunnel driven at some
    level below ground surface where it is expected that more water bearing fissures or
    bedding planes will be intercepted. Some adits have been several kilometres long.
(4) A 'well field' can be adopted, i.e. the sinking of several moderately sized boreholes,
    spaced apart in some pattern, their yields being collected together. The system is used
    to develop a good yield from an area of an aquifer where a single well could not be
    expected to give a large enough yield.
(5) Collector wells and galleries of various design using porous or unjointed pipes sunk in
    river bed or in river bankside deposits of sand and gravels can be used for abstraction
    of shallow groundwater, or galleries can be driven into a hillside to tap the water table
    (see Section 4.16).
These methods of development are dealt with in more detail in the following Sections.


4.3     Potential yield of an aquifer
It is often necessary to quantify the limiting yield of an aquifer for water supply purposes.
Formerly this used to be taken as equal to the long-term average recharge from rainfall
percolation, provided the storage capacity of the aquifer is large enough to even-out year
to year variations of the recharge. But further studies of climate variability have shown
there can be long runs of years of below-average recharge so that aquifer yields rarely
exceed 90% of the long average recharge. Additionally, however, an allowance may have
to be made to prevent the reduction of aquifer-fed spring flows causing environmental
damage. As rough guide, therefore, abstraction of about 75% of the average long-term
recharge is a safer estimate of the likely maximum sustainable development.
   To assess the possible yield of an aquifer in more detail, the groundwater catchment
must first be defined from the contours of the water table. It is usually assumed that the
water table reflects the ground surface to a reduced scale, but variations from this can
occur in asymmetric scenery containing features such as escarpments, or where one valley
has cut down deeper than its neighbours. It is important to check this, because the
underground water table catchment 'divide' may not coincide with the topographical
surface catchment divide above. It has to be assumed that underground flow is in the
                                                         4.3 Potential yield of an aquifer    119


direction of the major slope of the water table. This may not always be true, for instance
where there are karst limestone fissures; but it is best to follow the general rule in the
absence of any evidence to the contrary.

Assessing the amount of recharge
Sometimes the catchment outcrop may be remote from the point at which the wells tap the
strata concerned. The average recharge is estimated as average rainfall minus
evapotranspiration over the outcrop area (see Sections 3.6-3.8). Sometimes clay covered
areas of an aquifer discharge surface runoff to rivers which, in turn, leak a certain amount
of recharge back to the groundwater through the river beds. This amount is difficult to
estimate and can be near guesswork until there is a long experience of successful pumping
to confirm some mathematical model of the aquifer hydrology. Fortunately, recharge
from river bed leakage is usually only a significant amount in arid areas. In temperate
wetter areas the hydraulic gradient between the water level in the river and the adjacent
groundwater table level is usually too small to cause significant river bed leakage.
   To assess aquifer recharge, percolation formulae 7 can be of use, but they need
confirming before being used outside the area for which they were derived. Examples from
semi-arid areas like Jordan or Western Australia are based on a simple percentage of long
average rainfall, say 3 or 5%. Research by tracking the tritium contents of chalk-limestone
pore water and fissure water has demonstrated that, whereas water passing through
fissures may travel down to the water table at more than 0.3 m/day, the pore water
recharge front may move down at only 1-2 m/year. Distinguishing between the volumes
travelling by these alternative routes is fraught with difficulty because it depends on the
size of the recharge event and the possibility that pore water will drain out to fissures
during any major drawdown of the water table. A more helpful analytical approach lies in
recession analysis of dry-weather flows from groundwater catchments, as the next
paragraph describes.
   River flow recession curves can be used to determine that part of river flow, termed 'base
flow' which is fed from underground aquifer storage (see Section 3.12). In prolonged dry
weather the natural flow of a river will comprise only aquifer drainage through springs. At
any instant of time, spring flow, Q, is related to the volume of stored water, S, in the
aquifer by the relationship:
         Q =kS
If Qo is the spring flow at time t = 0, and Qt is the flow at later time, t,
         Qt -- Qoe -kt

where k has the unit day -1 if t is in days. (Typical values for k lie between 0.01 per day in a
good aquifer, to 0.10 per day in a relatively impermeable aquifer.)
   Consequently if log Qt is plotted against t (days) for a prolonged dry period, this should
give a straight line of slope k, as shown in Fig. 4.1. If a single long period free of rain is not
available for analysis, it is possible to link together shorter dry period flow recessions
which, plotted as shown in Fig. 4.2, will be asymptotic to the natural recession curve.
Section 3.12 shows how this recession curve can be used to estimate the base flow for a
given period of record.
  Base flow is percolation routed through storage. Hence by summing the baseflows over
a period and adding a correction for the change of storage between the beginning and end
120    Groundwater supplies




Fig. 4.1   Groundwater recession graph.




Fig. 4.2   Recession curve drawn from parts of daily flow record.
                                                              4.3 Potential yield of an aquifer   121

of the period the percolation for the period can be estimated. The correction for change of
storage is obtained by taking the change of water table level between the beginning and
end of the period and multiplying this by the aquifer storage coefficient (see Section 4.4).
Ranked and plotted on probability paper (Fig. 4.3), these seasonal percolation values can
be used to estimate recharge probabilities.
   Percolation gauge or lysimeter drainage readings (see Section 3.6) can also be used, but it
is difficult to be sure they represent actual average catchment conditions. Their rims
prevent surface runoff and, being on level ground, local runoff does not occur so the
measured percolate may be an optimistic estimate of the amount that reaches the water
table under natural conditions. Practical difficulties occur when such gauges are kept in
use for a long period. They can become moss covered, or the soil may shrink away from
the edge of the container. Alternatively percolation can be estimated by a soil moisture
storage balance method of the type demonstrated by Headworth. 8 Once the readily
available moisture in the root zone is used up by evapotranspiration in a dry period, the
subsequent build-up of soil moisture deficit must be made up before excess rainfall can
percolate to the aquifer once more. As Fig. 4.4 shows, the average percolation produced
by this method depends strongly upon the amount of moisture stored within the root zone.
These storage or 'root constant' values are known for several crops, ranging from 25 mm
for short-rooted grassland, to over 200 mm for woodland. Figures such as Fig. 4.4 require
specific calculation for each climatic regime, preferably with daily rainfall data.


                 28 I400'
                        -38O

                        -360
          ,-.,          -340
          a~
          ~o             320
           C
           m
          --     21 -300%
         ,,~            -.28
          0
          ~-             260
           O
          E             . 240
          2
           o            220
           C
          .o     14 .200%

           o            .180
           |            160                                                          165%
                                                                                      AAP
           m
           C
                    -140
           o        .




           m
           @
                        120
          u~
                  7 -lOO%
                    -8o                                                               90%
                                                                                      AAP
                    -60




                  0 ~           1                                                     AA,PJ
                   98%          90   80   70   60   50   40     30    20      10          2%
                                           Normal probability (%)

Fig. 4.3 Seasonal percolation probability plot.
122   Groundwater supplies

                  E 500
              v
                  E
                                     Short-rooted
                                               ~ zone c o n s t a~n-t -s- - ~ - - -       62.575.0}
                                                                                                Typically 75 mm
                                                                       ~ 5 0 . 0
                                                                                          37.~i per metre of soil


                               ~
                  C
                  t_
                       450                                                               '25.0 with active roots
                                                                                          1   2   .   5


                  O
                  Q.




                  u 400                     I                 1   ,,           I                  _,

              <          800              850               900              950                          lO'OO   ~o'5o
              (a)                                         Annual rainfall (mm)




                                                                                         .12.5
                                                                                      s S 25.0

                                                                                   /,~.37.5
                       500                                                                50.0
                                                                                          62.5
                                                                                          75.0
             ,.=..
              E
              E
              c 450
              0
              4..

                  0




                       400 ~~,/
              (3.




                               ~ r                                                       9Dorset and Hampshire
                                                                                         chalk catchments
                       35O                  l                 I                1                           I        1
                         800              850              900              950                           1000    1050
              (b)                                         Annual rainfall (mm)

Fig. 4.4 Relationship between rainfall and (a) evapotranspiration and (b) percolation using various
root constants (after Headworth8).




Yield constraints
Having found the potential yield of a groundwater catchment, it is possible to compare it
with the total authorised (or licensed) existing groundwater abstractions. This gives the
upper limit to what extra may be obtained, or, if too much is already being taken, the
extent of groundwater mining that must be taking place. It should be noted, however, that
mining can occur in one part of an aquifer whilst elsewhere springflows may indicate no
mining is apparent. This indicates low transmissivity within the catchment or parts of it,
suggesting a better siting of abstraction wells or a different approach to estimating the
maximum yield.
  Where a group of wells exists within a catchment, the average maximum drawdown they
can sustain without interfering with their output can be known. Using the average storage
coefficient, S ~, for the aquifer supplying the wells, the amount of storage they can draw
upon to reach this drawdown can be estimated. From this it is possible to calculate the
                                               4.4 Assessment of aquifer characteristics     123


minimum yield for various time periods for a given severity of drought, i.e.

         Abstraction possible = storage available for given pumping level;
                                   plus recharge during the given time period;
                                   less loss from springflows.

This calculation would be carried out for, say, a 2% drought for periods of 6-7 months
(lst summer); 18 months (two summers + one winter); and so on. This can reveal what is
the length of the dry period which causes the lowest yield, and whether pumps are sited
low enough to average out percolation fluctuations.
   Seawater intrusion into wells close to the sea may limit abstraction. The pumping has to
be kept low enough to maintain a positive gradient of the water table to t h e m e a n sea level.
However, since seawater is 1.025 times denser than freshwater, under equilibrium
conditions the freshwater-saltwater interface is 40h below sea level, where h is the
difference in height between the freshwater surface level and the sea level. Thus if the rest
water level in a well is 0.15 m above mean sea level, the saline water interface will be about
6.0 m below, or 5.85 m below mean sea level. (In practice the interface will be a zone of
transition from fresh to salt water rather than a strict boundary.) This means a pump
suction can be sited slightly below mean sea level without necessarily drawing in seawater;
but this is heavily dependent on the aquifer's local characteristics, because a stable
interface may only be formed in certain types of ground formations. A more reliable policy
is to use coastal wells conjunctively with inland wells. In the wet season the coastal wells
are used when the hydraulic gradient of the water table towards the sea is steepest,
reducing the risk of drawing in seawater. In the dry season the inland wells are used. By
this method a higher proportion of the water that would otherwise flow to the sea is
utilised than if only the coastal wells were used.
   Small low-lying oceanic islands face special seawater intrusion problems described in
Section 4.15.



4.4      Assessment of aquifer characteristics
The two principal characteristics of an aquifer are its horizontal transmissivity, T, which is
the product of its permeability times its wetted depth; and the storage coefficient, S.
Transmissivity, T, is the flow through unit width of the aquifer under unit hydraulic
gradient. Its units are therefore m3/m per day, often abbreviated to m2/day.
   The storage coefficient, S, is defined as the amount of water released from an aquifer
when unit fall in the water table occurs. Where free water table conditions occur it is the
volume of water released from a unit volume of an aquifer (expressed as a percentage of
the latter) that will drain by gravity with a unit fall of the water table level. But when the
aquifer is confined under pressure because of some impervious layer above, it is the
percentage of unit aquifer volume that must be drained off to reduce the piezometric head
by unit depth. The difference between these two meanings, although subtle, is vital.
Whereas the former may be in the range 0.1-10.0% , the latter may be 1000 times smaller
(demonstrating the incompressibility of water).
   By considering a well as a mathematical 'sink' which creates a cone of depression in the
water table, it has been shown by Theis 9 that drawdown in a homogeneous aquifer due to
124   Groundwater supplies

a constant discharge, Q, initiated at time t = 0 is
                                                                    U3      U4          )
         ho - h =        -0.5772 - log~u + u - ~               -t
                                                                    3.3!   4.4! t-...
                                                                                                       (1)
                = Q--- W(u)
                 47rT
where u = r2S/(4Tt), ho is the initial level and h is the level after time t in a well distance r
from the pumped well. Any consistent set of units can be used. For example, if Q is in
m3/day and T is in m2/day, then ho and h must be given in metres. S is a fraction. W(u), the
'well function' of the Theis equation, can be obtained from tables. 1~ Although both the
Theis equation and the Jacob simplification of it (see below) are derived for a homo-
geneous aquifer they are found to work in well-fissured strata, such as Upper and Middle
Chalk. The essential need is to be able to assume reasonably uniform horizontal flow on
the spatial scale being considered, together with the absence of any impervious layer that
interferes with drawdown.
   In the Theis method of solution a type curve of W(u) against u is overlaid on a plot of
the pump test drawdowns versus values of log (r2/t). Where a portion of the type curve
matches the observed curve, coordinates of a point on this curve are recorded. With these
matchpoint values the equations can be solved for S and T.
   However Jacob's less exact method 11 is easier to apply and meets most situations that
confront an engineer. He pointed out that if time t is large, as in most major pumping tests,
then u is small (say less than 0.01), and so the series in the Theis equation can be shortened
to:

                    ho - h = Q        0 . 5 7 7 2 - loge(r2S/4Tt)
                            47rT
                           =4QT2.3Ologxo(4Tt/r2S).._ - 0.5772                               Note (a)

                           _ 23.0QaTr______l~176
                                           ~    (2"25Tt/r2S)                                Note (b)   (2)

(a) 2.30 lOgl0 = loge and inverting the log changes the sign.
(b) anti-loge(-0.5772) = 1/1.78 and 4/1.78 = 2.25
   Plotting drawdown against time at an observation borehole within the cone of
depression thus produces a straight line (Fig. 4.5).
   If the drawdown for one logarithmic cycle of time is read off, the value of lOgl0 (2.25 Tt/
r2S) = 1.0 in eqn (2).
   Hence

         ho - h = 2.30Q/47rT x 1.0 where ho - h is in metres and Q is in m 3/day.

        i.e. T = 2.30 Q/47r(ho-h)
   Then reading off the time intercept, to days, for zero drawdown

         S-   2.25Tt/r 2 where T is in m 2/day and r is in metres.

Certain qualifications apply as follows.
(1) If the regional water table rises or falls as a whole during the test then the drawdown
    should be adjusted by the equivalent amount.
                                                       4.4 Assessment of aquifer characteristics 125

                                           i           . . . .            I
                                 t 0 = 1.95 days, /                       !


                     0.4
                                           =r " ki x                      li
                     0.8
                                           II ['.k
                                              I "~
                                                                          I
                                                                   Drawdown in
                 E                          II     11       ~a~    1 log cycle
                v    1.2                    I      /      ~"       of time =
                                    Line fitted to data ~       \~ 2.86 metres
                 O
                     1.6            once horizontal f l o w ~ ,       I
                 L
                                    conditions exist               ~o I
                                           I
                o    2.0                   I
                                           I
                     2.4                   i
                                           I
                                           I
                     2.8                   I                 llogcyc           ~       .   I'

                                           I
                     3.2                   I                              I
                                    I      1       i     1   1 1 1 I11l            1       1    1   I il   11
                                  0.5     1.0       2 3 4 5          10            20               50      100
                                        Time f r o m start of test (days)

Fig. 4.5 Jacob's pump test analysis for the test pumping of a well at 4000 m3/day. Data are plotted
from an observation well 200 m from the test wall.
              2.3 x 4000                             2.25 x 256 x 1.95
    Hence T = 47r x 2.86 = 256 m3/day metre, and S =       2002        = 0.028 or 2.8%


(2) Early time data should not be used because there will be substantial initial vertical
    flow as the storage is evacuated. Boulton suggests the necessary horizontal flow
    conditions will exist when r > 0.2 days and t > 5dS/K t days; where d is the wetted
    aquifer depth and Kt is the vertical hydraulic conductivity which can be taken as T/d if
    Kt is not otherwise known. (In horizontally layered strata Kt may be one-third or less
    of the horizontal conductivity.) Some reiteration with values of S and T is required to
    use this guide.
(3) Where the pumped well only partially penetrates the aquifer, 12 it will be necessary to
    adjust the drawdown values for the non-standard flow lines that then ensue unless the
    observation well is at least 1.5 times the aquifer depth away from the source. Rather
    than make complex adjustments it is preferable to use the Jacob rather than the Theis
    method on a long-term pumping test.
(4) Where drawdown is large compared with the aquifer thickness and the aquifer is
    unconfined, the measured drawdowns should be corrected 11 by subtracting from them

    (drawdown)2/2 x wetted aquifer depth

    as shown in Table 4.2 which gives a layout for pumping test results.
Analyses for S and T can also be made during the recovery part of the test at an
observation bore. If only levels in the pumped well are obtainable, the information that
can be achieved is usually limited to an estimate of T on recovery. 13
   Once S and T are established it is possible to predict with the above equations what
drawdown below current rest water level will result at different pumping rates, different times
and other distances. Where more than one well can create a drawdown at a point of interest,
the total effect can be calculated by the principle of superposition, i.e. the drawdowns due to
individual well effects can simply be added. Analytical solutions 1~ exist for many aquifer
126   Groundwater supplies

Table 4.2 Layout of pumping test results

Average pumping rate (Q)
Results from observation well No.                 Radial distance (r)
Aquifer thickness
Regional water table change during test, 6ho per day

(1)          (2)    (3)             (4)           (5)           (6)         (7)          (8)
Time from    r2/t   Levelin well    Drawdown      Correction    Corrected   Correction   Final
start of            h above         S~ = ho-h     for region-   drawdown    for large    drawdown
ppg t               datum ho                      change        Cols        drawdown     Cols
                                                  water table   (4) i (5)   (Col.6)2     (6)-(7)
                                                  6ho  t                       2d


conditions, including boundary effects from impermeable faults and recharge streams. Care is
needed to adopt the solution appropriate to the lithology and recharge boundary.
   It will be appreciated that the engineer has no control over the values of S and T found
at a well site. The water drawn from the hole may come from local aquifer storage after a
long residence time. However, resiting, deepening or duplicating a bore are all options that
may be called upon once S and T are known.


4.5      Groundwater modelling
Early groundwater movement models used an electrical analogue of Darcy's law of
groundwater flow which states:
         Flow Q = Tiw

where T is transmissivity, and i is hydraulic gradient through an aquifer cross-section of
width w. Transmissivity was defined in Section 4.4 as flow per m width, i.e. m3/m per day
under unit hydraulic gradient. With the introduction of computers, mathematical
modelling of groundwater flows became possible. The most common models use the
finite difference or finite element approach. Under the former, and assuming flow is near
enough horizontal, a grid is superimposed on a plan of the aquifer to divide it into 'nodes'.
Between nodes the flow is related to the hydraulic gradient and the transmissivity of the
aquifer in directions 'x' and 'y' (the transmissivity sometimes being taken the same in
either direction). The finite difference method adjusts the calculations so that 'boundary
conditions' between each flow stream and its neighbours match.
   Equations (with many terms) can therefore be set up connecting node-to-node flows and
head changes, and to which overall limiting boundary conditions apply, such as the assumed
(or known) upstream initial head applying, the lateral boundaries of the aquifer, and the
downstream conditions applying, such as the outcrop of the aquifer. The equations can then
be solved by the computer to match the boundary constraints by reiterative methods or
matrix formulation, to a specified degree of accuracy, resulting in the computer providing
water table contours and field flows. Three-dimensional flows and both transient and
steady-state condition of flows can be dealt with, together with such matters as consequent
aquifer-fed spring flows, the effect of pumped abstractions and so on.
                                               4.6 Test pumping of boreholes and wells 127


   There are many computer models available for simulating groundwater flows, and a
resume of their characteristics and capacities is given by Maidment. ~4 M O D F L O W
developed by US Geological Survey in 1988 is quoted as 'popular and versatile'. It can
deal with two- and three-dimensional flows and incorporates numerous ancillary facilities.
Another useful model is PLASM, originally written for the Illinois State Water Survey and
described as 'recommended as a first code for inexperienced modellers because it is
interactive and easiest to operate'. Use of a groundwater model requires a sound
knowledge of hydrogeology and some practical experience of modelling techniques. Also
in order to obtain the necessary data for the model, a hydrogeological investigation of the
aquifer is essential (see Sections 4.2 and 4.7).


4.6      Test pumping of boreholes and wells
The aim of test pumping is not only to find how much water a well or borehole will
presently yield, but also to find:
(a) the effect, if any, of the pumping on adjacent well levels, spring and surface flows;
(b) the sustainable amount that should be abstractable through possible dry periods of
    different severities;
(c) the drawdown/output relationship whilst pumping in order to decide the character-
    istics required for the permanent pumps installed;
(d) the quality of the water abstracted;
(e) data sufficient to derive estimates of the key characteristics of the aquifer penetrated,
    i.e. its transmissivity and storage coefficient.
An initial problem is to decide what size of pump to use for test pumping. If the pump's
maximum output is much less than the well is capable of yielding, the test will not prove
how much more water the well could give and what effect this would have on adjacent
sources. On the other hand a test pump with an output larger than the well can yield,
means a waste of money. A major cost of test pumping is the temporary discharge pipeline
required. For a large output the discharge line may need to be laid a considerable distance
to ensure there is no possibility of the discharged water returning to the aquifer and
affecting the water levels in the test well and in other wells kept under observation.
    The test pump size has to be estimated from experience in drilling the well and on what
other holes in similar formations have given. Water level recovery rates after bailing out
(see Section 4.9) and upon stopping drilling are important indicators of possible yield; the
drill cores can indicate where well fissured formations have been encountered, and an
experienced driller should be able to notice at what drilling level there have been signs of a
good ingress of water to the hole. The most usual type of pump used for test pumping is
the electrically driven submersible, its output being adjusted by valve throttling. In rare
instances a suction pump (i.e. one above ground having its suction in the well) may be used
if the water level in the well is very near ground level; and for small holes an airlift pump is
possible and cheap (see Figure 4.6) although rarely used. The discharge must be accurately
measured and continuously recorded. A venturi meter, orifice meter, or vane meter can be
used for measuring discharge; or for best accuracy the discharge may be turned into a
stilling tank equipped with a V-notch measuring weir outlet with a float recorder to log the
water level over the notch. The advantage of a stilling tank and weir is that it provides a
nearly constant outlet head for all outputs and is a positive method of measurement. If
128   Groundwater supplies

                                 Air


                                                          --   Discharge



                                                       Lift (L)




                                 Pumping
                                 drawdown
                                                       Working
                                                       submergence
                                                       (s)




                                                   I
                                               C
                               Well lining ~
                                                       For pumping
                                                   I
                                                       S <~ 60% (S + L)


                          Unlined section ~        1




Fig. 4.6 Air lift pump.


meters in the discharge pipeline are used, the pump outlet head will vary with the flow
making it more difficult to maintain a constant test pump output, and the meter accuracy
must be checked before test pumping and at least once during the test.



Test pumping regimes
Every effort should be made to carry out the test pumping when groundwater levels are
near their lowest seasonal decline towards the end of the dry season. Whilst dry weather
during the testing is an advantage, it cannot be guaranteed in a variable climate, and some
rainfall during the testing does not invalidate the observations taken, provided it is not
extreme. Test pumping outside the dry season when groundwater levels are high should be
avoided if at all possible, because it gives uncertain estimates of the yield during the dry
season.
   The test pumping is usually carried on for at least 3 weeks. Three stages of increasing
output, such as 1/3rd, 2/3rds, and full output are tried first without stoppage, each for at
least 24 hours. The pump is then stopped and the recovery rate of the well water level is
carefully measured. When sufficient of the recovery curve against time has been obtained
to show it's trend towards starting rest level, the pump should be restarted at maximum
                                                                        4.6 Test pumping of boreholes and wells                                     129


output and kept at that rate for 14 days, the recovery again being measured when pumping
is stopped.
   If the maximum pump output is greater than the well can yield, there will be a
continuous dropping water level, and the output must be throttled back in an endeavour
to get a steady drawdown. In other cases the output, after causing an initial drop of water
level, may either show a continuous slow decline of water level as pumping continues, or a
diminishing decline showing a trend towards some maximum drawdown for the given
output. It is not always possible to reach stable conditions within a 14-day pumping test.
   Problems can occur. If the pump fails in the middle of the test, the important thing then
is to get the well water level recovery recorded. After re-starting the pump, the output
should be adjusted to that previously. It is not easy to keep the pump output constant
because it will reduce as drawdown increases, and fluctuations in the voltage of the
electrical supply to the pump can cause quite marked changes of pump output.
Adjustment of the pump output by valve operation has therefore to be done carefully, to
avoid over-adjustment and re-correction which will cause fluctuating water level readings
difficult to interpret. Measuring the water level accurately in a pumped borehole can
present difficulties. Using an electrical contact device to detect the water level must be
done manually. An air pressure measuring device sited below the water level is not very
accurate. Using a submerged electronic pressure transducer can record levels, but it must
be calibrated in situ.
   The pumping water levels and pump outputs should be plotted as shown in Fig. 4.7
from which a 'type curve' of output against drawdown can be derived. It is also useful to
replot the stepped drawdown results as a Bruin and Hudson curve 15 as shown in Fig. 4.7.
This can reveal the proportion of the drawdown due to the characteristics of the aquifer,


          'ID
                    10           Stoppage                                                 10
          ~          8

                                                                                     ==                                       Type curve
           ~ 4
          .E                                                                         o)
                                                                                 .E
              E
                                                       I       .I        IE                          J     l   ~     I  I l   I i l    I        !
          ="        0    1   2          3          4       5        6     =~ 0                       2    4    6     8 10 12 14 16 18 20
                                                                                                                   Drawdown (m)
                                                       f~---%
              E                             Days
                                                                                       2.5




         ;i
                                                                                                r-

                                                                                                //             Bruin and Hudson curve
                                                                                 =..      2.0 ~-            Slope c =
                                                                                 o.
         .E                                                                                          turbulent flow losses
                                                                             v
                                                                                 E
         _9
         J3 10                                                                   O
        ..-
         --~ 12                                                                  t~       1.0
         .E 14                                                                   r                                   Drawdown = bQ + cO 2
         - 16
                                                                                          0.5            bj= laminar flow losses
         ...e 18
                                                                [
              t..

          | 20                     l.        ,1        I                 I                                           l    J      J      I   I
          (U             1   2          3          4       5        6                       0            2          4    6       8     10
                                            Days                                                                   Pumping rate (M[/d)

Fig. 4.7 Step-drawdown test results (Bruin J. and Hudson H. E. Selected Methods for Pumping
Test Analysis. Report 25, Illinois State Water Supply, 1955).
130   Groundwater supplies

and the proportion due to hydraulic characteristics of the well or borehole, the latter being
distinguished by the turbulent flow losses, the former by the laminar flow losses.
Examination of the turbulent loss coefficient, c, can sometimes suggest high entry losses to
the well due to poor design of the well screens or gravel packing. Good (i.e. low) figures for
c in cQ 2, where Q is in m3/min, are below 0.5. The laminar loss coefficient, b, describes the
relative permeability of the aquifer(s) feeding the well.


Use of observation wells and monitoring
To determine aquifer characteristics (see Section 4.4) it is desirable to have two
observation boreholes sited within the likely cone of depression of the water table about
the borehole when test pumping takes place. The radial distance of these holes from the
well to be tested should be such that:
(a) the water level drawdown they experience as a result of the test pumping is large
    enough to give a reasonably accurate measure of the drawdown;
(b) the drawdown amount is small relative to the depth of saturated aquifer which
    contributes flow to the pumped well.
The second requirement is needed to ensure that the flow through the aquifer at the
observation bore site is essentially horizontal. Experience has shown that these
requirements frequently result in observation holes being sited between 50 and 200 m of
the pumped well. The larger this distance is, the greater is the 'slice' of aquifer brought
under observation. Similarly more information will be gained if the two observation holes
are on radials 90 ~ apart. The radial distance of each bore from the well should be
measured.
   Water levels in these observation bores should be measured regularly before during and
after test pumping, the frequency being increased after starting, stopping or altering the
pump output, sufficient to log rapid change of water level in the observation bore.
Preferably a water level recorder should be used. An existing well, such as a household
well, can be used for observation purposes, provided the amount taken from it is too small
to affect its standing water level. Usually, however, no conveniently placed existing well
will be available and, if observation bores are required, they will have to be drilled. The
expense of this often means that such observation boreholes are omitted, so reliance has
then to be placed solely on results of the pumped borehole and the effect, if any, on
existing wells and boreholes nearest to the pumped site.
    It is also essential to monitor water levels in all wells and ponds, and the flows from
springs and in streams, that could conceivably be affected. The area to be covered by such
monitoring is a matter of judgement according to the particular circumstances, but would
often be about 2 km radius about the test pumping site. But all important abstractions
that could be sensitive to flow diminution, such as watercress beds and fisheries, should be
monitored even if they appear to lie outside any possible range of influence of the
proposed abstraction. The paramount need is to have proof they were not affected by the
test pumping. The measurements of key indicator wells and springs may be started
 6-9 months before the planned timing of the test pumping. Temporary weirs may be
needed to measure springs and stream flows. On streams or rivers, measurements of the
 flow both upstream and downstream of the test pump site may be necessary. The aim is to
 get a sufficiently long record of water table levels and stream flows that their trend before
                                       4.7 Geophysical and other investigation methods     131


and after the test pumping can show whether there is any interruption or change caused by
the test pumping.
   There is also a need to check that the underground water table 'catchment area' which
contributes to the test pumping is the same as the topographical catchment. Increased
abstraction from one underground catchment area can cause the water table divide to
migrate outwards, reducing the area of an adjacent catchment feeding other sources which
will, therefore, at least notionally suffer a reduction of potential yield.
   Daily rainfall measurements must be taken also, if there are no existing raingauge
stations to give the catchment rainfall. The work of monitoring is essential. In most
countries, concerns about the need to preserve the natural aquatic environment and the
rights of existing abstractors, mean that authorisation to abstract more underground
water will only be obtained if the engineer is able to show, from records taken during test
pumping, that no unacceptably harmful effect will be caused.


4.7       Geophysical and other investigation methods
Samples of strata will be collected during the sinking of a borehole, but the samples will
inevitably be disturbed, and the groundwater quality will also be disrupted so that samples
may not be properly representative of aquifer water quality. Any pumping from the bore
will only give a mixture of all the flows entering the bore. To gain more precise
information, a wide variety of subsurface 'down-hole' geophysical methods of exploration
are valuable. Direct physical observation or measurement can be obtained by:
9     use of a television camera to view the walls of a boring;
9     using a calipering device to measure and record bore diameter with depth;
9     use of recording instruments to obtain profiles of water temperature, pH and
      conductivity with depth;
9     use of small sensitive current meters to detect differences of vertical flow rates in the
      boring, thus indicating changes in inflow or outflow rate from strata.
In addition electrical and nuclear instruments can provide information concerning the
strata penetrated. Resistivity measurements taken down the hole, using an applied
electrical potential through probes, can locate the boundaries of formations having
different resistivities. This can aid identification of the type of strata penetrated and also
permit fresh and saline waters in the formation to be distinguished. Measurement of the
'self' or 'spontaneous' electrical potential existing between strata at different depths of the
formation can be of assistance in detecting permeable parts of the aquifer. Nuclear
downhole tools used are mainly (in water) of three types.
9     Natural gamma detectors which pick up natural radioactivity from potassium in clays
      (so correlating with clay content).
9     Gamma-gamma tools which use a gamma radiation source to bombard the formation
      and measure back-scattered radiation produced, which is inversely proportional to the
      formation density and can be used to indicate degree of cementation or clay content
      also.
9     Neutron tools which are used to give an indication of water content and porosity.
All these measures, co-ordinated and supplementing each other, can give extensive
additional information about an aquifer. In particular they can indicate best locations for
132   Groundwater supplies

inserting well screens or gravel packs (see Section 4.8). More extensive information is
available in IWES Manual No. 5. ~6
  An additional method of investigation is to use packers down a boring to isolate
individual aquifers contributing water to a borehole. Many aquifer systems comprise
several separate aquifers. This permits measurement of the piezometric head in each
aquifer and withdrawal of water samples for analysis. Also potential rates of inflow from
different aquifers can be compared. Various multi-tube assemblies can be used to
withdraw samples of water from the isolated aquifers and, if inserted in an observation
borehole, they can remain in place for subsequent monitoring purposes. The production
bore can, of course, be similarly investigated before a pump is installed. The method can
reveal whether it is advisable to seal off inflows of undesirable quality (including signs of
contamination), or which come from formations whose catchment outcrop is known to
include potential sources of pollution best avoided.


4.8      Borehole linings, screens and gravel packs
The upper part of a boring is usually lined with solid casing which is concreted into the
surrounding ground. This is to prevent surface water entering and contaminating the
borehole and to seal off water in the upper part of the formation which may not be of such
good quality as that obtained from the main aquifer to be penetrated.
   Where a boring encounters weakly cemented or uncemented sands and gravels, it may
be necessary to install perforated or slotted lining, designed to hold back such formations,
permitting fine particles adjacent the screen to be washed out, to stabilise the formation
and improve the yield of the borehole. There are many different types of screens; the
simplest comprise slots cut in borehole casing, whilst the most sophisticated are stainless
steel, wedge wire wound screens with accurately set apertures. In non-corrosive waters
screens are usually made of steel; in corrosive waters, plastic coated steel, phosphor
bronze, glass reinforced plastic, or rigid PVC slotted or perforated screens may be used.
Figure 4.8 shows the aperture and percentage open area for some typical 300 mm diameter
screens. The screen aperture required has to be decided according to the size of particles in
the formation (see below). Because of unavoidable partial blocking of the screen by sand
particles, the effective area of a screen is usually estimated at less than half its initial open
area. The water entry velocity through the apertures needs to be limited to about 30 mm/s
to avoid high turbulence losses. Working from the required yield, the open screen area and
the amount of blockage that might occur over time, the length of screen necessary can be
calculated.
   If the apertures or slots of a well screen are suitably sized, withdrawal of the fines from
the formation may result in the coarser material forming a 'naturally graded pack' against
the screen which prevents further withdrawal of fines when the borehole is pumped. A
formation is considered capable of forming a natural pack if the D 10 size (aperture size
through which 10% of the material by weight passes) is greater than 0.25 mm, and the
D90 size (size through which 90% passes) is less than 1.0 mm, and the uniformity
coefficient is between 3 and 10.
Uniformity             aperture size through which 60% of material passes (by weight)
              ----7_


coefficient                  aperture size through which 10% of material passes

During test pumping and development of the boring, abstraction rates should be higher
                                          4.8 Borehole linings, screens and gravel packs   133

      50


                  Comparison of 12-inch diameter
      40                  screen types




 c 30
 o


 c-


 E 20




      10




                  I            I             I              I          I       [            I
                 0.5          1.0          1.5            2.0         2.5     3.0          3.5
                                     Aperture size (slot size) (mm)

Fig. 4.8 Comparison of screen open areas.


than will occur during the normal permanent pumping so that no fines are withdrawn with
normal rates of pumping.
   Where the grading of the formation material is unlikely to form a 'natural pack', a
gravel pack would be placed outside the screen. The screen is suspended centrally in the
borehole by means of lugs fitted at intervals on the outside, and the gravel is tremied into
the annular space. The gravel pack can be of uniform sized gravel or graded gravel.
Uniform-sized packs are suitable when the Uniformity Coefficient of the formation
material is less than 2.5, in which case the 50% size of the gravel pack should be four to
five times the 50% size of the formation material. ~v Otherwise a graded gravel pack should
be used, its grading being selected to parallel the grading curve of the formation material
so the Uniformity Coefficients are similar, and the D15 size of the pack should be four
times the D 15 size of the coarsest sample from the formation, with the D85 size of the pack
less than four times the D85 size of the finest formation material sampled.
   The minimum thickness of the gravel packing should be 75 mm. The placing of a
thinner pack becomes uncertain because of imperfect verticality of the boring, variations
in its diameter, and the problem of placing the gravel evenly in the annulus at depth. Even
with the use of a tremie pipe there may be zones where the pack is virtually absent, and
others where the thickness is greater than necessary. Part of the development of a newly
sunk borehole may involve the need to remove 'mud cake' from the formation face, and a
thicker pack tends to reduce the ability to remove the cake. There are many methods for
selecting an appropriate gravel pack ~s'~9 each usually for a particular type of aquifer
formation.
134   Groundwater supplies

   In loose sandy formations, such as Greensand, the need for a gravel pack has to be
taken into account when deciding on the starting diameter for a boring. The expected
water pumping level is also an important factor to be taken into account because this
determines where the pump is to be sited, and consequently the diameter required down to
pump level to ensure the pump can be accommodated with reasonable flow conditions to
its suction. Although it is possible to ream out a borehole to a larger diameter in some
cases, it may not be practicable in a loose formation where solid or slotted lining has to be
driven down closely following the boring tools to prevent collapse of the hole.


4.9     Construction of boreholes and wells
Borings for public water supply are usually of large diameter, so methods for sinking them
differ from the smaller diameter holes sunk for oil drilling or for the water supply to a few
houses. The percussive method is widely used. A heavy chisel (see Plate 1) is cable
suspended and given a reciprocating motion on the bottom of the hole by means of a
'spudding beam' which alternately shortens the cable and releases it at a rate which varies
with the size and weight of chisel used. Considerable skill is required by the operator to
adjust the rate of reciprocation to synchronise with the motion of the heavy string of tools
down the hole and avoid any violent snatch on the cable. This cable has to be paid out
gradually and kept exactly at the right length for the chisel to give a sharp clean blow to
the base of the hole. The wire cable is left hand lay and, under the weight of the string of
tools tends to unwind clockwise, thus rotating the chisel fractionally with each blow. After
a while the unwinding builds up a torque so that, when the weight is off the cable just after
a blow on the base of the hole, the torque breaks a friction grip device in the rope socket
attachment and the cable returns to its natural lay. Thus slow rotation of the chisel
continues. Every so often the string of tools must be withdrawn and a bailer - a tube with
a flap valve at the bottom - is lowered to clear the hole of slurried rock chippings (see Plate
2). Progress is therefore slow and, dependent upon the hardness of the formation, the drill
chisel will require resharpening from time to time.
    Another percussive method is use of a 'down the hole' hammer operated by compressed
air. This is up to ten times faster in hard rock than a cable-operated chisel, but it is
unsuitable for soft formations and cannot be used in substantial depths of water. The
chippings have to be ejected to the surface by the exhaust air from the hammer passing
through the annular space between the drill rods and the borehole. Unless the boring is of
 small diameter there may be difficulty in raising the chippings, in which case an open
topped collector tube may be positioned immediately above the tool to collect the
chippings. The down-the-hole hammer is predominantly used on small boreholes up to
 about 300 mm diameter (see Plate 1).
    For rotary drilling of large holes in hard material a roller rock bit is used, equipped with
 toothed cutters of hard steel which rotate and break up the formation (see Plate 1). Water
 is fed to the cutters down the drill rods and, rising upwards through the annular space,
 brings the rock chippings with it. In the 'reverse circulation' method the water feed passes
 down through the annular space and up through hollow drill rods. This achieves a higher
 upward water velocity making it easier to bring chippings to the surface. Air is sometimes
 used instead of water, but the efficiency falls off with increase of depth below water. Heavy
 drill collars may have to be used to give sufficient weight on the rock cutters. Also a large
 quantity of water may be required for the drilling of a large diameter hole. Rotary rock bit
                                               4.9 Construction of boreholes and wells 135


drilling is widely used by the oil industry, usually for holes o f substantially smaller
diameter than those needed for public water supply. Clay or bentonite drilling fluids can
be used to support unconsolidated formations and assist in raising chippings. However,
the use of such suspensions is not always advisable in water well drilling in case they seal
off water bearing formations. Instead polymer based, low solids, biodegradable muds are
preferred since these are not so likely to seal off water bearing formations.
   Diamond core drilling is seldom used for sinking water supply holes except for small
diameter holes in hard formations or for trial holes where rock cores are needed.
   An alternative method of rotary core drilling for large diameter water borings is to use
chilled shot fed down to the bottom of a heavy core-cutting barrel (see Plate 2). The barrel
has a thickened bottom edge under which some of the chilled shot becomes trapped and
exerts a strong point loading on the formation causing it to crush and be fragmented. A
small amount of water is added for lubrication and further chilled shot is added so that
eventually, with the annular cut deepening, a core of rock enters the barrel. To break off
the core and bring it to the surface, some sharp pea gravel or rock chippings are sent
down, causing the core to be gripped by the barrel, rotation of which causes the core to be
broken off. Progress in hard formations is slow and, if fissures are encountered, problems
of loss of shot or water can occur; but large diameter holes can be cut in this manner.
   When soft or loose material is encountered, a solid casing or slotted lining may have to
be pushed down to the level required as the boring proceeds, or after withdrawal of the
chisel. Once such lining is inserted, deepening of the hole may have to proceed in smaller
diameter. Several such 'step-ins' of diameter may be required if the formation has several
separated layers of loose material. With rotary drilling, biodegradable muds previously
mentioned may be used to keep the hole open, provided the mud does not seal off water
bearing formations or is not lost through fissures. In this case it may not be necessary to
line the hole until it is completed to full depth. However rotary drill rigs may have
difficulty in penetrating ground containing hard boulders and rotary drilling is
considerably more expensive than percussion drilling.
   Verticality of a boring is not of so much importance as are 'kinks' in the boring down to
the level where the permanent pump will have to be sited. If any of these exist above pump
level they may throw the pump siting to one side of the boring, making poor entry
conditions to the pump suction and causing difficulty in lowering or removing the pump.
A usual specification for verticality is that the hole should not be more than 100 mm off
vertical in 30 m of depth, but it is not necessary to insist on this at depths below any
possible siting for the pump. It is especially difficult to keep a boring vertical when steeply
inclined hard strata are encountered. If correction is essential it may be necessary to ream
out a hole to larger diameter to get the remainder of the boring on line.
   The duties of the borehole driller are:
(a) not to lose drilling tools down the hole;
(b) to note and log down every change of drilling circumstances such as increased or
    decreased speed of drilling, change of tools necessary, quick or sluggish recovery of
    water level after bailing out, etc.; and
(c) to note and log down the nature and depth of all cores and chippings produced from
    the boring, keeping all cores and chipping samples.
Tools lost down a boring, such as a drill bit which comes off the rods, may cause days of
delay in attempts to recover them and, if 'fishing' (with a wide variety of special tools) is
136    Groundwater supplies

unsuccessful it may be necessary to ream out a hole to larger diameter down to the too
recover it. Sometimes tool recovery may defeat all efforts which means the hole has tc
abandoned if it has not been driven to the required depth. When a water boring is be
sunk it is particularly important to keep a watch for signs of encountering large fissu
such as a sudden drop of the chisel or drill, increased flow of water into the hole, or J
recovery of water level when bailing out. The engineer needs to see that logs of progl
are meticulously kept. Core samples should be stored in wooden core boxes, their delz
being clearly marked. Samples of chippings and soft material should be stored in pla
bags properly labelled. The samples need to be examined by an experienced geotechn:
engineer or hydrogeologist following the guidelines set out in BS 5930 'Code of Prac
for Site Investigations'.
  Wells up to about 1.2 m diameter can be sunk in hard material by rotary drilling usi~
heavy core barrel and chilled shot as previously described. In less hard materials, suc~
chalk, a large percussion chisel may be used to chop up the formation, the excava
material being removed by suction pump or by grab. In very soft or loose material, w
may be sunk kentledge fashion, a concrete caisson of the required well diameter, wit
lower cutting edge, is sunk into the ground by hand excavation of the core material be]
the cutting edge. As excavation deepens, further rings are added to the top of the caiss
The excavated material is removed by skips or by a crane grab. In extremely soft mater
excavation by grab alone may be sufficient for the caisson to descend by its own wei
until harder material is encountered. Early wells were hand dug with linings of brick; 1~
wells had linings of cast iron segments bolted together. Either interlocking pre-c
concrete rings or concrete segments bolted together are now used. Except where a we]
sunk in river bed deposits, its upper part would be sealed by cement grouting on
outside to prevent ingress of surface water to the well.


4.10     Development and refurbishing boreholes and wells
When a borehole or well has been completed it may be ,developed' to maximise its yi,
The objective is to remove the clay or finer sand particles from the natural format
surrounding the slotted linings or well screens to improve the flow of water into the bor
and to ensure that any gravel packing is properly compacted. Several different method:
development can be used. 'Surging' is the most common and consists of pumping from
well at maximum rate, and then suddenly stopping the pumping, causing flow to wast
and out of fissures in the formation thus dislodging silt and fine sand therein. The pis
effect of using a bailer can also be used, but must not be too energetic or screens migh!
damaged or an uncased hole collapse. 'Swabbing' and 'surging' with a piston can be u~,
a swab having a valve in it which allows water upflow. Both tools promote energetic f]
through a screen during their up and down movement, the surge plunger in partict
causes strong agitation in a gravel pack, encouraging rearrangement of particles in
pack and removal of fines. But these tools cannot be used with wire wound screens w~
are supported by internal vertical bars; instead they have to operate in the casing above
screen where they may still be effective but considerably less so.
   Air lifting, although an inefficient form of water pumping, can be useful for
development of a hole carrying sand-charged water which would be highly abrasive
normal centrifugal pumps. The conditions for air lift were shown in Fig. 4.6. There
several variations on the use of an air-lift for this purpose which depend on the vert
                          4.11 Pollution protective measure: monitor&g and sampling       137


movement of the air pipe up or down inside the eductor pipe. It is also possible to seal the
top of a boring and inject compressed air at the top, driving the water down into the
formation, prior to release of the pressure and starting the air lift.
   Jetting can be used. Depending on whether the gravel pack has to be agitated, or the
screen or formation cleaned, either low or high pressure can be used. A jetting head with
horizontal water jet nozzles is suspended on the end of a drill pipe and slowly rotated
whilst jetting. Care has to be taken with non-metallic screens or where there is potential
weakening of a screen through corrosion.
   Other methods sometimes adopted comprise chemical treatment or acidisation, but it is
strongly advisable that these should only be undertaken by an engineer experienced in the
techniques. The most common chemical treatment uses a dispersant, such as sodium
hexametaphosphate, e.g. Calgon, to assist in the removal of fine material. Acidisation is
used in calcareous strata to enhance the size of fissures in chalk or limestone in the
immediate vicinity of the borehole. Concentrated hydrochloric acid is usually used,
together with an inhibitor to minimise corrosion of any mild steel casing. The acid is
applied by pipe below the water level. If the top of the borehole is closed the pressure of
the evolved carbon dioxide can enhance penetration of the acid into fissures. However,
because of the danger of using acids, full safety measures must accompany the operation,
and the production of carbon dioxide can be hazardous unless special attention is paid to
the need for ventilation.



4.11     Pollution protective measure: monitoring and sampling
The dangers of groundwater contamination are widespread and varied. Industry,
agriculture and urbanisation with sanitation generate large and varied suites of ground-
water pollutants, many of which are of public supply significance. The characteristics of
the various pollutants vary in time and location as Table 4.3 indicates: but all represent the
background addition of some substances to groundwater which may be controllable in due
course, but cannot be prevented. The significance for public supply is very high. Treatment
becomes necessary initially, and the resources may then become difficult to manage to
avoid inducing or accelerating further contamination. Groundwater pollution can
sometimes be 'cleaned up', many methods have been used in the last twenty years,
mainly in the USA where funds have been provided for the purpose. But the technology
for restoration of contaminated groundwater and aquifers remains costly and imprecise.
Remedial action may be impracticable where predicted clean-up time is decades or longer.
The aquifer may become completely unusable so that substitute resources, such as
imported supplies or treated surface water, are needed and a valuable and inexpensive
resource is lost.
   The concept of evaluating the vulnerability of groundwater sources to pollution is based
on consideration of the lithology and thickness of the strata above the aquifer a n d the
surface soil leaching properties. From this, the size of protection zone required around a
borehole or well may be derived, based on the estimated 'travel times' of potential
pollutants within the saturated zone to the abstraction point. 2~ Work initiated by the
National Rivers Authority and later taken over by the Environment Agency, suggested
three zones of protection should be investigated for protection of underground abstraction
works.
138    Groundwater supplies


Table 4.3 Major sources of potential groundwater pollution

Occurrence         Local/linear mode               Distributed mode
Seasonal/periodic Road salting                    Agricultural fertilisers herbicides and pesticides
                  Rail and road verge
                  herbicides
                  Silage
Continuous        Road drainage                   Industrial atmospheric discharges
                  Cesspool overflows
                  Septic tank effluent disposal
                  to land
                  Solid waste tip and landfill
                  leachates
                  Contaminated abandoned
                  industrial land
                  Influent polluted rivers
Random            Road/rail tanker spills         Nuclear and industrial accident fallout
                  Pipeline and sewer breakages
                  Fires
                  Defective storage of industrial
                  or agricultural chemicals



9     Inner Zone I defined by a 50-day travel time from any point below the water table to
      the source, based principally on biological decay criteria.
9     Outer Zone H defined by the 400-day travel time, based on the minimum time required
      to provide dilution and attenuation of slowly degrading pollutants.
9     Source catchment Zone III defined as the area needed to support the protected yield
      from long-term groundwater recharge from effective rainfall.
To delineate such zones about any particular source a series of field investigations are
necessary; initially to provide a conceptual model which later, as more data is obtained, is
sufficient to produce a calibrated model of the catchment so that the zones can be more
accurately defined. In the U K such zones are used as a guide for the control of catchment
activities by water undertakers; but elsewhere, as in Germany, the protection zones can be
statutory, being set up under local Federal legislation.
   Continual vigilance over the surface catchment to an underground source should be
exercised. All potential sources of p o l l u t i o n - cesspools, septic tanks, farm wastes,
industrial waste and solid waste tips, farm or industrial storages of chemicals, etc. - should
be discovered and logged on a map of the catchment area. All these should be regularly
monitored to ensure they are properly controlled. Poorly functioning household sewage
disposal works may have to be replaced by more efficient plant and assistance to farmers
may be advisable in order to aid improvement of their waste disposal practices.
   Monitoring of the quality of water will reveal signs of contamination and whether it is
recent and local, or more likely to be from a distant part of the catchment. The chemical
constituents of the water can show evidence of the types of pollution listed in Table 4.3. If
                              4.12 River flow augmentation by groundwater pumping 139

a pumped borehole penetrates several water bearing strata, depth specific sampling devices
can be used below the pump with isolating inflatable packers. This can be useful for
ascertaining at what level a contaminant is entering the borehole. Gas operated ejection
devices or small diameter piston pumps can be used to withdraw samples from sections of
the borehole isolated by using packers. Otherwise samples from the pumped water will be
a composite sample of the water entering the hole from the full thickness of the formation
penetrated.
   Groundwater sampling needs a slightly different approach to surface water sampling.
The chemistry of groundwater tends to be relatively stable, but dissolved oxygen and
redox potential may be more important than for surface waters. Quality changes during
sampling have to be considered, mitigated as much as possible by taking certain
measurements in the field such as dissolved oxygen, pH and conductivity. The
groundwater temperature may also be a useful indicator, because surface percolation to
the upper levels of an aquifer will show a substantially greater seasonal temperature
variation than water drawn from depth. Long-term abstraction of groundwater may cause
an increase in dissolved solids, which can imply the abstraction is drawing water from
more distant parts of the aquifer, so the catchment area monitored may need to be
extended.


4.12 River flow augmentation by groundwater pumping
Regulating river flow by pumping from groundwater is growing in importance. 21 Water is
pumped from an aquifer and discharged to a river to augment its flow during a low flow
period. Usually the abstraction points lie within the river catchment basin. Successful pilot
schemes of this type were undertaken by the Severn-Trent and Anglian Water Authorities
in the UK in the 1970s, and were later developed into major supply schemes by the
National Rivers Authority. 22"23 In the USA at least one example has been reported. 24 To
be successful river regulation by groundwater pumping has to meet certain basic criteria.
(1) The scheme should provide a satisfactory increase in yield above that which could be
    obtained by direct abstraction from the aquifer.
(2) Discharge of the pumped groundwater to the river should result in economies in
    pipeline costs.
(3) The abstraction pumping capacity must be not less than the desired gain in river flow
    during the design drought period, plus any reduction of springflows feeding the river
    caused by the pumping.
(4) If recirculation losses through the river bed occur, it must be practicable to adopt
    equivalent extra abstraction capacity.
Prolonged groundwater abstraction will almost certainly reduce some springflows
contributing to the river flow. To avoid iterative calculations it may be better, in a
simple approach, to assume that all spring flows within a given distance from the
groundwater abstraction points will be reduced to zero by the pumping during a
prolonged drought. Pilot well tests and a detailed knowledge of the catchment
hydrogeology are necessary to assess which springflows will be so affected. A better
approach is to adopt groundwater modelling by computer. This permits the cumulative
effect of pumping to be traced for droughts of different severity and length. The method
can reveal the effect on local wells used by householders, farming and other interests, and
140    Groundwater supplies

whether any adjacent catchment is affected; and can check if percolation is sufficient to
restore the aquifer storage during later wet periods.
   In general river regulation by groundwater pumping is most successful where the
groundwater pumping has a delayed, minimal, short-lived effect on natural river flows. To
achieve this, several carefully sited abstraction points, pumped according to a specific
programme, may be necessary. Where a regulated flow substantially in excess of the
natural low river flow is required, prolonged pumping tests at the proposed abstraction
points during a dry period are essential. This can be an expensive operation. Also caution
is required in estimating the possible yield during some extreme drought condition not yet
experienced, because aquifer drawdown conditions during some future critical event
cannot be known with any accuracy.



4.13     Artificial recharge
Artificial recharge of an aquifer is more often practised for water treatment reasons than it
is to augment groundwater yields. The two basic methods adopted are the use of spreading
areas or pits, and the use of boreholes. The former technique has dominated because of its
simplicity and the ease with which clogging problems can be overcome. The relatively
unknown performance of wells and the need to pass only pre-treated water down them,
limits their usefulness except where land for recharge pits is at a premium. Untoward
events can happen during recharge operations" at an Israeli site 25 the injection of water
down a well caused unconsolidated sands around it to settle and, in less than two days
after pumping ceased, the borehole tubes and surface pump house sank below ground
level. In a British experiment 26 even the use of a city drinking water supply for recharge
did not prevent the injection well lining slots from becoming constricted with growths of
iron bacteria.
    At times when existing surface water treatment works are working below capacity, e.g.
when there is a seasonal fall in demand, it may be possible to make water available for well
recharge. This is being practised in the Lee Valley 27 north of London. Complete efficiency
cannot be expected because of the relatively uncontrollable and 'leaky' nature of aquifer
storage. Because the recharged source may not be used for some months, there is a loss of
resources as the 'recharge mound' decays outwards and down the hydraulic gradient. Even
where abstraction facilities have been located specifically to minimise this, the losses are
considerable. Special artificial recharge operations in coastal areas have been used to
prevent saline intrusion from the sea. This has been done in coastal Israel and California,
for example. 28'29
    Recharge as a way of improving wastewater quality has been used in the Netherlands,
Germany and Scandinavia for many years. 3~ Alluvial sand aquifers of the coastal
Netherlands are recharged with heavily contaminated River Maas water after primary
 filtration. The abstracted water still has to be treated using activated carbon to remove
 heavy metals but can be used for public supply. The strata which provide the natural
 treatment during infiltration have to be 'rested' and allowed time to recover and re-
 oxygenate. At Atlantis in south-west Africa a successful artificial recharge scheme is part
 of the local water resources management system. Treated domestic sewage effluent and
 urban storm runoff from the 67 000 population is recharged through lagoon systems and
 re-abstracted from specially sited production wellfields. 31
                                                               4.14 Groundwater mining      141


   Recharge boreholes are vulnerable to various types of clogging due to accumulation of
suspended solids, gas bubbles which come out of solution, and microbial growth filling
interstices or screen apertures. Borehole recharge systems using a polluted water are
normally not acceptable. Hence only recharge pits are considered below.
   Although dimensions vary, a recharge pit bears resemblance to a slow sand filtration
bed because replaceable filter media normally covers the base. The rating of such a pit
depends upon the rate at which the raw water will pass through the filter media and the
rate at which the underlying aquifer will accept water. The former depends upon raw water
quality, pre-treatment of the water (if any), and the depth of water kept in the pit. Little, if
anything, can done to improve the rate at which the aquifer accepts the filtrate, but a
decline in the infiltration rate must be guarded against by tests to ensure the filter media is
working satisfactorily. Published results for infiltration rates vary widely.
   Pilot tests are always required at a new site, as are initial investigation bores to ensure
the pit floor will be above the water table by a margin as big as possible to give the best
opportunity for water quality improvement, and to allow for increased groundwater
storage and its 'mounding' below the recharge pit. Iron-pan layers and other impedances
to vertical flow should be avoided.




4.14     Groundwater mining
In many countries of the Middle East and elsewhere groundwater is being used at a rate
greatly in excess of the rate at which the same resources are being replenished. This tends
to occur because there is no institutional framework for controlling development, and
because demands for water cannot be ignored while adequate resources appear to exist.
Climatic patterns have changed during the last few tens of thousands of years, and areas
which are now arid were once comparatively humid. In that earlier period, high rates of
recharge applied where none now takes place, as in the Libyan Desert and much of Saudi
Arabia. In both regions there are groundwater developments on a vast scale which 'mine'
this water. Many thousands of cubic kilometres of groundwater can be developed, though
the cost of doing this and taking the water to where it is needed are high. The Great Man-
Made River Project in Libya (see Table 4.1) is a modern example, where the capacity now
exists to pump many millions of cubic metres of groundwater through 4 m diameter
concrete pipelines for over 600 km from inland desert wellfields to the Mediterranean
coast. In Saudi Arabia 'fossil' groundwater is being mined for public supply, and h e r e - as
in some other c o u n t r i e s - groundwater exhaustion problems have only been avoided
through largescale adoption of seawater desalination.
   The use of water resources without a knowledge of their sustainability, or where it is
known that mining is taking place, may be looked upon as an irresponsible course of
action in most cases. But often the use of technology to minimise demand or maximise
efficiency in the use of water is too costly to be politically acceptable, especially in respect
of agriculture which remains the greatest and least efficient user of water resources. It is
estimated that a 10% improvement in the efficiency of agricultural use would double the
resources available for public supply.
142          Groundwater supplies


4.15              Island water supplies
Large numbers of islands abound in all the major oceans, particularly off South East Asia
and in the Pacific. In the Philippines alone there are over 7000 islands and Indonesia
comprises over 13 000 mainly small islands. The Republic of the Maldives in the Indian
ocean is a nation comprised completely of coral atoll islands, about 1300 of them, of which
about 200 are populated. Geologically the islands range from the Maldive type of atoll
islands which are less than 2 m above high tide level, to larger islands with a rocky core
surrounded by a rim of sediment and reef. Apart from isolation and lack of natural
resources, such islands are short of water. Such freshwater as exists often occurs as an
extremely fragile lens, floating on saline water below. Population densities are high. On
Mal6 island, capital of the Maldives, there are over 70 000 population on 200 ha of land.
The fresh groundwater therefore not only became polluted with sewage but eventually was
virtually consumed by over abstraction so that dependence on desalinated water and
external resources is now near total. Similar problems can occur in other places where
tourism increases water demand beyond the ability of local resources to supply.
   On the larger rocky islands, surface water resources can sometimes be developed from
perennial streams or springs, but stream flow is ephemeral on all but the larger islands.
Usually there is heavy dependence on groundwater which exists as a reserve of freshwater,
usually described as forming 'a lens' of freshwater within the strata forming the island,
below which lies denser saline water infiltrated below from the sea. The lens is not usually
regular, but strongly distorted by complications of geology which influence fresh
groundwater flow to the sea. A lens thickness of 20-30 m is common, with a transition
zone between the fresh and saline water, the thickness of which is a function of the aquifer
properties, the range of tidal fluctuation, and any fluctuation due to variation in the rate
of rainfall recharge. The amount of water represented by a given lens depends on the
specific yield of the strata, a coral sand may have a high specific yield (20% or more)
whereas a limestone or volcanic rock may have a much lower capacity to store water of
less than 1%.
   The highly simplified system illustrated in Fig. 4.9 shows the main elements of water
balance and attempts to show a transition zone between fresh and saline waters. The
overall situation is that the dynamic balance between percolation from rainfall and
outflow of freshwater to the sea determines the dimensions of the lens of freshwater,


                                                                                                                         Rainfall replenishment

         Coral sands and                                                      ,~ ~'~,
         shell debris                                                         ,~~-~,                                        !
                                                                                                                          q~
                             "~                            ETs I~                       y" ~""'%                                                    i Well abstractions
                                                                     /                  ~ k~ '                              i                       T                                                                Interflow loss


 ~   t   N    '   .   v           "~ ~ - , ~ . ~ ? . _ -        I    ,_   r         r       ~   ~            " //G,.~H          VVC;IILI~/      9          ~"           ~        _,   --   I'    -~.~         f'./      --         _..L.   ~]I~C:I.

                      _c~~
                             ~.C'~,,~'~-:.j
                              -    .              9 "~IC'--
                                                            9                 ,.~       ~
                                                                                        _   ~                         .lens          ^~"-----~
                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                    ~
                                                                                                                                                                            ,J        /
                                                                                                                                                                                           .o.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 "c.'.-
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~      .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~,,-'j.~,)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .-~6.z~   -             _~_

                                                                    " -' c"~::2_'-~. ~ransition zonu. c. j_..~"~ ~.
                                                                                                    ~' .'-." ^ - - ~ : - ~ - 7 ,             ~'.'-'- "~"
                                                                                                                  Seawater


Fig. 4.9          Diagrammatic representation of lens of freshwater floating on seawater on a coral island.
                                                                     4.15 Island water supplies   143


mainly its depth because the width is limited. This is the 'classical view' of the lens
configuration, in which the height of the lens surface above mean sea level is 1/40th of the
depth of the lens below mean sea level because the ratio of the density of freshwater to that
of seawater is 1:40. But observations from many islands show that a more realistic model
incorporates vertical and horizontal flow due to the effect of a typical two-layered sand
overlying a reef limestone system. 32-34 The transmission of the tidal fluctuations to the lens
is not necessarily proportional to the distance from the shore, but rather to the depth of
the sand aquifer and the transmissivity of the underlying reef limestone. Dispersion is also
incorporated in the model to allow for the thickness of the transition zone between the
fresh and saline water, which is typically of the order of 3-5 m.
   The water balance equation for a simplified model is shown on Fig. 4.9. However
putting a measure to all its components (other than rainfall) is very difficult. For instance
the groundwater outflow is usually a significant proportion of the balance, but it cannot
be directly measured; it can only be roughly estimated from the groundwater gradient and
the hydraulic conductivity of the aquifer. Similarly evapotranspiration use by vegetation is
difficult to estimate because of the unusual situation that such vegetation can find
freshwater continuously available at shallow depth. Hence a water balance estimate can
only reveal whether the likely replenishment of the lens is obviously less (or more) than the
estimated losses from outflow and abstraction. Consequently the only safe way to evaluate
the situation is to measure the thickness (and extent) of the lens and to keep it monitored.
   The most sensitive monitoring of the freshwater reserves is obtained by measuring the
electrical conductivity at the base of the freshwater lens and across the transition zone.
Over this zone small changes in the elevation of the lens is reflected in large changes of
electrical conductivity. Figure 4.10 shows the results of such probes at a number of depths
made on Mal~ Island from 1983 to 1990, showing the virtual demise of the freshwater
reserves during that period.


     6.0
                                           Resistance declines as conductivity
                                           increases due to seawater rising to
                                           immerse electrodes in turn
     5.0


     4.0                                                    2.5m depth
 E


 ," 3.0
._~
rr 2 . 0 -
                                                     /


     1.0
                      ~   ~   -    ~            ~ 6.5m depth

      0                   I                 I                   I
             Year 1               Year 2           Year 3                Year 4        Year 5

Fig. 4.10 Graph indicating rise of freshwater/seawater interface transition zone as lens of
freshwater thins due to over-abstraction- Mal6 Island 1983-1988.
144     Groundwater supplies

   Controlled development of island freshwater is best achieved by shallow abstraction,
using groups of shallow wells or collector systems, or even infiltration trenches. The use of
boreholes is usually not the best approach because drawdown of the freshwater surface
during pumping tends to cause upward movement of the saline water below. The rate of
'up-coning' of saline water depends on the geology, rate of pumping and depth of the
borehole; but once contaminated with saline water the aquifer may take many weeks or
longer to recover a usable quality of freshwater. The proportion of rainfall which
recharges groundwater is subject to many factors. A relationship between rainfall and
recharge derived by Falkland 34 for atolls and larger topographically low islands is shown
in Fig. 4.11 and is a useful guide for preliminary use.
   However the difficulty of preventing overdraw from an island aquifer has to be
recognised. The local population will have been able to use house wells for their supply.
But because the level of the water in such wells remains virtually constant (even though
over-abstraction is causing the freshwater lens to thin), householders will see no evidence
to suggest they should reduce their take. The technical solution required to preserve the
lens is to close all the household wells, and install a surface abstraction scheme which takes
only an amount equal to the average replenishment of the aquifer, supplying householders
with a rationed supply from it via standpipes or metered connections. Any government or
water authority would find such a policy difficult to implement because of the difficulty of
explaining to householders the technical need, evidence for which is not visible to them.



                   1200    -

                                                                          Kwajaleinl

                   1000 -
                                                                     NotreesT /



                                                                               I
              E                                                                    /~t NorthGuam
              E 800 -
              L_



              t-
              O                                                        . ~            CocosIslands
                   9 600   -
              :3
              t-"
              C
              r
                                                                J              100%trees
                    400 -


                               Notrees T J
                                                   ~                Bermuda


                    200 -
                                       j.t       Christmas Islands

                                      100%trees
                                I            I            ..,   I              I             I

                               500      1000        1500                      2000         2500
                                      Meanannualrainfall (mm)

Fig.   4.11   Relationship between mean annual rainfall and estimated mean annual groundwater
recharge.
                                                       4.17 Borehole and well layouts    145


4.16    Collector wells and other underground water developments
Collector wells sunk in river bed deposits are widely used on wadis where the dry weather
flow of the river is underground. They take the form of large diameter concrete caissons
sunk in the river bed, the caisson having to be of sturdy construction to withstand the
force of the flood flow in wet weather. Access by bridge is necessary, the bridge and the
top of the caisson being sited above maximum flood level. From the base of the caisson,
collector pipes are laid out horizontally usually upstream, though sometimes across the
stream bed or fanwise upstream. The collectors usually comprise porous, perforated or
unjointed concrete pipes, 200-300 mm diameter, laid in gravel filled trenches cut in the
river bed sediments, connected to the wet well. If ordinary centrifugal pumps (which are
the cheapest) are used, they have to be sited above maximum flood level with their suctions
dipping into the water, which limits the range of water levels from which water can be
pumped. Use of submersible pumps can overcome this difficulty.
   The patented Ranney well is an early form of collector well, usually made of cast iron
and sunk in river bankside gravels or alluvial deposits fed from the river, with perforated
collector tubes jacked out horizontally from the base in the most appropriate
configuration, often parallel to the river. This type of well uses the bankside deposits to
act as a filter. Consequently the well may have a short productive life if suspended
sediment is drawn into the bankside deposits; but back-flushing of the collectors can
prolong the useful life, sometimes very effectively. The advantage of a Ranney well is its
relative cheapness of construction and avoidance of the need to construct a weir across the
river and install intake screens.
   Galleries are similar to the pipes of collector wells and are common in some areas of the
world where seasonal watercourses cross thick and extensive alluvial strata which offer
large storage potential. Galleries are comparatively large diameter perforated collector
pipes buried 3-5 m deep or below the minimum dry season groundwater level, and
surrounded by a filter medium. It is essential to locate galleries to avoid those parts of a
watercourse where active erosion of the bed could occur when the river is in spate.
   Qanats are believed to be of ancient Persian origin and are very widespread on the
flanks of mountain ranges in Iran. They are also widespread in the Maghreb where they
are known as 'foggaras', in the Arabian peninsula where they are known as 'aflaj' (singular
'falaj'), and are present in Afghanistan and China. The source or 'mother well' is dug to
some depth below the water table relatively high on the flanks of a mountainous area (see
Fig. 4.12). A series of additional wells is dug in a downhill line towards the area where the
water is needed, and the wells are connected by means of tunnels below the water table so
that the groundwater is drained down-gradient. The tunnel gradient is slightly less than the
groundwater gradient, and much less than the topographical gradient, so the tunnel
eventually emerges above the water table and subsequently to the surface where it acts as a
canal to deliver the water where required.
   The systems were hand dug and hence tunnels are comparatively large for ease of
construction and to allow regular maintenance. The tunnel section from its point of
emergence from the water table has to be clay-lined to minimise losses. In an increasing
number of cases, competing large scale pumped groundwater abstraction is causing serious
interference with these ancient gravity systems. As a result they are slowly going out of use
through neglect as their discharge declines and the necessary maintenance is no longer
done.
146    Groundwater supplies

                                                                   'Mother' w e l l ~          . . . ~


                                          Access shafts for ~               . ~::~,~.          7         Mean
                                          construction and                              II         :     water
                                          maintenance                  //]-F"   I       II               table



           Vertical scale exaggerated             f,,ll
                                                 /L-z]-I--   II   II    ,,H"-., "1 " ~ ' [ " ~ ' - - ~ ' ~ - SeasOnal




                                                                                    I


                                 Lined section         =1=        Producingsection

Fig. 4.12 Section through a typical Qanat system.



4.17     Borehole and well layouts
For most public supply purposes a borehole capable of giving upwards of 5 M1/day is
required and, for this, a boring of at least 300 mm diameter is necessary to accommodate
the pump. In practice a more usual size of borehole would be 450-600 mm diameter
because of the need for good flow characteristics in the boring and through the rising
main, a possible need to reduce the diameter of the boring with depth or for installing
screens, and to give allowance for any lack of verticality in the hole. If a boring is to be
sunk on a site where no borings in the vicinity are available to give information concerning
the likely nature of the strata to be penetrated it may be considered advisable to sink a
pilot borehole first. Choice of the size of this boring can present a problem. If it is small,
starting say 150 mm and reducing to 100 mm, it will be cheap and give the strata
information required, but should it strike a good yield of water it may turn out too small
for insertion of a pump to develop its yield. It can, perhaps, be reamed out to a larger
diameter or a larger boring may be sunk nearby to accommodate the pumps. But there is
no certainty in fissured formations such as chalk and sandstone, that a nearby hole will
yield as much, or more. In one case where two 300 mm diameter borings were sunk in the
chalk of southern England, the first hole gave just over 3 M1/day which was considered
not enough, so a second hole was sunk only 5 m away and gave more than 18 M1/day.
   A single boring of 450-600 mm diameter will permit only one pump to be installed and
this may not adequately safeguard a public water supply. Even though the modern
practice is to use submersible pumps, the time taken to remove a defective submersible
pump from a boring and to substitute another may cause an interruption to the supply
longer than can be tolerated. If the pumping level is not too far below ground level, say
about 20 m, it may be economic to construct a well which can be sufficiently large to
accommodate two pumps. The well can be sunk over a trial boring, if the latter gives a
                                                   4.18 Choice of pumping plant for wells and boreholes 147

good yield; or a second boring can be sunk a few feet away and a connection between the
two can be 'blown through' by using a directional charge (see Fig. 4.13). If, however, the
trial borehole fails to give a satisfactory yield, but it is nevertheless thought the site should
be capable of giving more, a well may be sunk elsewhere on the site, a second boring being
sunk from its base. By use of a pump in this second boring, the well may be dewatered so
that an adit can be driven towards the trial boring (also dewatered) connecting the two
bores together. This makes it possible to utilise the combined output of the two borings.
   Adits are seldom constructed now, but in the past many miles of adits were driven from
wells sunk in chalk or sandstone formations. Their purpose was to increase the yield of a
well by cutting more water bearing fissures: this was sometimes a successful policy, at
other times not. The adits were generally unlined, about 2 m high by 1.2 m wide, driven
with a slight upward grade from the well, and a grip on one side to drain incoming water
to the well shaft when driving. The ever present possibility of meeting a large water-
bearing fissure meant that quick, reliable escape means for the men cutting the adit had to
be assured. Dual power supplies for the dewatering pumps and for the crane operating the
access bucket were therefore essential; and adit cutting was slow because, for safety, the
men had to come up with each bucket-load of muck. The consequent high cost of adit
driving and an increased knowledge of developing yields by boreholes has therefore
effectively ended their construction today save in rare circumstances.




                                                       Flow measured continuously
                                                       I




                                        ~
                                        ~,:.-,
                                             .
                                                       J        __~ Discharged to natural watercourse
                                                                   some distance from works
                                                                                                    /
       Watertight --                    ,                                                         /Z~ q;p
       lining to keep                   ,,i                        Blown through connection     / ~= .=~_b~,~._/
       out surface                      ,                          below gn                         ~, ~ o / /
       water                                     450 or 600ram
                                        ii~trial borehole
  NN
       NN

  x         N

      "",,~           Adit A            f~'-     Adit B __j
                L. . . . . . . .   4,   i~- - - ~:-- F"a'~l-m wel I        I::                     *" -~ V ,
      Well is driven
      to depth                           '                                 -                       450 or 600mm
      required for                                                                                trial borehole
                                                                                  2m diameter well
      adit driving
                                                                           Plan of permanent layout,
  Blown through                                                            showing pumps 1, 2 and 3
  connection                  "~                                           (vertical spindle borehole
                                                   Dewatering              pumps) delivering to
                                                   pump                    common header pipe




Fig. 4.13 Layout using trial borehole, deep well, and adits.
148       Groundwater supplies


4.18         Choice of pumping plant for wells and boreholes
From the test pumping of the completed works the yield-drawdown characteristic curve
for the source will be obtained, such as curve A shown in Fig. 4.14. It shows the pumping
water level expected when the rest level is 'average'. However allowance has to be made for
the fluctuation of the water table level during the wet and dry seasons of the year and the
lowest rest level that might occur if an extreme dry weather period were experienced. There
may also be a possible deterioration of the yield with time due to such unpredictable
matters as silting of fissures, change of aquifer recharge due to changed conditions on the
outcrop, or increased abstraction from the aquifer elsewhere.
   The engineer needs to know what duty range to specify for the pump(s) to be inserted in
the well, and what will be the range against which the pumps will most times be operating.
The normal seasonal fluctuation of the water table level should be known from data
collected before the pumping test takes place and, if historical records are available for
existing wells in the same underground catchment, these may indicate the lowest water
table level likely in an exceptionally prolonged dry season. The second problem is what to
allow for deterioration of the yield with time. Experience of what has happened to
boreholes in the same area, or in similar formations elsewhere can act as a guide; and
where, as is often the case, such information is not available, the amount allowed for
deterioration has to be arbitrary and regarded as a safety factor. A typical arbitrary




              I b ..                                                           Average rest level

            15[..~.                  _                             Pump characteristic curve at reduced speed y
              /   c   ~ . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ y                          Pu,             Pump characteristic curve at maximum




      o                                                                                                        - yieid-drawdown
      _9o
      ~     25-                            V'/                   ";"~ " ~ e ~ - ~ ~               / I I ~X~urve ~ test



       > ,.,-                                            I- ~
                                                                     .)                                   rottli     quired i~ffixed
      -- "                                                                                                           curve (A) applies
      ~o                                   Hange~176
                                           rH::gee~T
                                                   ~                         ~x,            \\   ~\                     ~'~"
                                                                                                       \
            35- '       (~    -modified yield-drawdown curve ~                                     \\ \\
                        to-'allow for deterioration of yield                                          \\ \ ~ - b "

                         ...... , ......         ,   .              ,          .      ..L        c'~"~',\\'~ ',          '...\. \
            4O0                                  5                                    10                                 15
                                                                Abstration rate        (MUd)
Fig. 4.14 Yield-drawdown curves for a well with pump characteristic, curves superimposed.
                                4.18 Choice of pumping plant for wells and boreholes     149


allowance for future decline of yield is to assume there will be a 33% reduction in yield for
a given drawdown level or drawdown will increase by 33% for a given pumping rate.
   If, say, an arbitrary reduction of yield is assumed as shown by Curve B on Figure 4.14
curves bb' and cc' show its variation in the wet season and dry season respectively. The
characteristic curve of a possible pump has also to be added onto the diagram, shown as
curve x-x' for a given fixed speed pump. The curve x-x' applies to the head necessary to
lift the water to the top of the well and to any additional lift to some storage tank. The
pump characteristic has to be such that it is capable of giving the maximum output
required (10 M1/day in Fig. 4.14) if the well characteristics should decline to curve c-c'.
However, if the well yield-drawdown characteristics remain as Curve A, the pump would
have to be partially throttled by part closing of the delivery valve to keep the flow to
10 M1/day. If the pump is driven by a variable speed motor, however, a reduced speed of
rotation causes the pump output curve to shift. The curve y-y' represents the pump output
at a lower speed of rotation, when only about 6 M1/day, say, is the required output and the
pumping water level in the well is higher.
   The decision as to whether a fixed speed or a variable speed pump should be installed
depends upon a costing of the alternatives. A fixed speed pump having to be throttled at
high water levels in the well will cause some wasted energy costs. A pump with a variable
speed motor will be more expensive than a fixed speed pump, and its average efficiency
over the range of operation may not be so high as that of a fixed speed pump which can
spend most of its time running at its design duty. The calculations will need to take into
account that the yield characteristics of the well will appertain more closely to curve A for
the first years of ~life of the well, and this can possibly be met by introducing a dummy
stage into a fixed speed pump, the dummy stage being replaced by an additional impeller if
the drawdown later increases. The best procedure for the engineer is to lay down all the
expected circumstances of the case when approaching manufacturers as to what type of
pump they consider best. The data provided should include:
9   the well yield-drawdown characteristics;
9   the additional lift required from the well head (and its characteristics);
9   the expected time periods per annum for which the drawdown will be in the upper,
    middle, and lower range of values;
9   what increase of drawdown should be assumed for the first 10 or 15 years;
9   the average, maximum and minimum rates of pumping that will be required.
With respect to the last item, an important point that must not be missed, is that whereas
the licensed abstraction is most often stated as an amount abstracted that must not be
exceeded in any day of 24 hours, the actual pumping hours will be less, such as 22 hours to
allow for shutdowns to attend to routine maintenance matters. Also, outputs less than the
maximum would normally be met by pumping for reduced h o u r s - which of course implies
that some storage must be available to keep the supply going to consumers when the pump
is not operating. Pumps most often now used for well and borehole pumping are fixed
speed submersible pumps (see Section 12.7). Only for large outputs would vertical spindle
centrifugal pumps be used because of their much greater expense. Variable speed drives
also add to the expense and tend only to be chosen if use of a fixed speed pump would
cause much extra power cost by having to be throttled. Given a fairly flat efficiency curve
about the design duty, and a reasonable slope to the head-output curve, a mixed flow,
150       Groundwatersupplies

fixed speed submersible pump (see Fig. 12.4(a) in Chapter 12) may be the most suitable for
well pumping if the range of drawdown is not excessive.



References
     Rodda J. C., Downing R. A. and Law F. M. Systematic Hydrology, Newnes-
     Butterworth, Oxford, 1976, see Table 3.10.
     Singhai B. B. S. The Hydrogeological Characteristics of the Deccan Trap Formation
      ~




     in India, Proc Rabat Symposium May 1997; Hard rock hydrosystems, IASH
     Publications No. 241.
     Wright E. A. and Burgess W. (eds). The Hydrogeology of Crystalline Basement
     Aquifers in Africa, Special Publication 66, Geological Society, London, 1992
     Jones M. J. The Weathered Zone Aquifers of the Basement Complex Areas of Africa,
      o




     Q J Eng Geol 18(1), 1987 pp. 26-35.
     Stanners D. and Bourdeau P.(eds). Europe's Environment, Chap. 5, Inland Waters,
     pp.57-108, European Environment Agency, Office for Official Publications,
     Luxembourg, Aug. 1995.
     Sander P. Water Well Siting in Hard Rock Areas; Identifying Probable Targets Using
     a Probabilistic Approach. Hydrogeology Jnl, 5(3), 1997, pp. 32-43.
     Summers I. (ed.). Estimation of Natural Groundwater Recharge, Reidel, 1987, p. 449.
      o




  8. Headworth H. G. The Selection of Root Constants for the Calculation of Actual
     Evaporation and Infiltration for Chalk Catchments. JIWE, 24, 1970, p. 431.
     Theis C. V. The relation between lowering the piezometric surface and the rate and
      .




     duration of discharge of a well using groundwater storage, Trans American
     Geophysical Union, 16, 1935, pp. 519-614.
 10. Walton W. C. Groundwater Resource Evaluation. McGraw-Hill, Maidenhead, 1970.
 11. Jacob C.E. in: Flow of Groundwater (ed. H. Rouse). John Wiley & Sons, Chichester,
      1950.
 12. Kruesman G. P. and de Ridder N. A. Analysis and Evaluation of Pumping Test Data,
      3rd edn. International Institute for Land Reclamation and Improvement, Wagenin-
      gen, The Netherlands, 1983.
 13. Groundwater and Wells, Edward E. Johnson Inc., Saint Paul, Minnesota. 1966, Table
      XXX.
 14. Maidment D. R. (ed.). Computer Models for Sub-surface Water, Chapter 22,
      Handbook of Hydrology. McGraw-Hill, New York, 1992.
 15. Bruin J. and Hudson H. E. Selected Methods for Pumping Test Analysis. Report 25,
      Illinois State Water Supply, 1955.
 16. Groundwater Occurrence, Development and Protection, Water Practice Manual No. 5,
      IWES 1986, Chapter 9 on Downhole Geophysics.
 17. Terzaghi K. Theoretical Soil Mechanics, John Wiley & Sons, Chichester, 1943.
 18. Monkhouse R. A. The use of sand screens and filter packs for abstraction wells,
      Water Services, 78, 1974.
 19. Campbell M. D. and Lehr J. H. Water Well Technology, McGraw-Hill, Maidenhead,
      1973
 20. Adams B. and Foster S. S. D. Land-surface zoning for groundwater protection.
      JIWEM, June 1992, pp. 312-320.
                                                                       References   151

21. Downing R. A. and Wilkinson W. B. (eds). Applied Groundwater Hydrology, Oxford
    University Press, Oxford, 1991.
22. Skinner A. Groundwater Development as an Integral Part of River Basin Resource
    Systems, Groundwater in Water Resources Planning, Proc Koblenz Conf. Int. Assn.
    of Hydrogeologists, Vol. II, 1983, pp. 641-650.
23. Steering Committee. Groundwater Pilot Scheme, Final Report, Great Ouse River
    Authority, 1972.
24. Todd D. K. Groundwater Resources of the Upper Great Miami River Basin and the
    Feasibility of their use for Streamflow Augmentation, Report to Miami Conservancy
    District, Ohio, 1969.
25. Sternam R. Artificial Recharge of Water Through Wells: Experience and Techniques,
    Proc Symposium on Artificial Recharge and Management of Aquifers, IAHS, Haifa,
    1967.
26. Marshall J. K., Saravanapavan A. and Spiegel Z. Operation of a Recharge Borehole,
    Proc ICE, 41, 1968, pp. 447-473.
27. Edworthy K., Headworth H. G. and Hawnt R. Application of Artificial Recharge
    Techniques in UK, in: A Survey of British Hydrogeology, Royal Society, London,
    1981.
28. Aberbach S. H. and Sellinger A. Review of Artificial Groundwater Recharge in the
    Coastal Plain of Israel. Bull Int Assoc Sc Hydrology, 12(1), 1967, pp. 75-77.
29. Bruin A. E and Seares F. D. Operating a Seawater Barrier Project. J Irrig & Drainage
    Div, ASCE, 91, IR-1 pt 1, 1965, pp. 117-140.
30. IASH. International Survey on Existing Water Recharge Facilities, Publication No.
    87, 1970.
31. Wright A. and du Toit I. Artificial recharge of urban wastewater; the primary
    component in the development of an industrial town on the arid west coast of South
    Africa, Hydrogeol Jnl, 4(1), 1996, pp. 118-129.
32. Wheatcroft S. W. and Buddemeier R . W. Atoll Hydrology, Ground Water 19(3),
    1981, pp. 311-320.
33. Ayers J. F. and Vacher H. L. Hydrogeology of an atoll island; a conceptual model
    from a detailed study of a Micronesian example. Ground Water 24(2), 1986, pp. 185-
    198.
34. Falkland A. Hydrology and Water Management on Small Tropical Islands. Proc
    Yokohama Symp, Hydrology of Warm Humid Regions, IASH Publication No. 216,
    1993, pp. 263-303.
                                             5
      Dams, impounding
  reservoirs and river intakes

5.1      Introduction
The earliest dam Smith was able to report in his book, A History of D a m s I w a s the 37 feet
high Sadd el-Kafara dam, built between 2950 and 2750 BC the remains of which lie 20
miles south of Cairo. It had upstream and downstream walls of rubble masonry each 24 m
thick at the base, with a 36 m wide, gravel filled space between, and it appeared to have
had a short life because it suffered from the two principal defects that continued to plague
many dams for the next 4500 y e a r s - it leaked and was probably overtopped.
   There are many materials of which a dam can be m a d e - earth, concrete, masonry or
rockfiU. The choice depends upon the geology of the dam site and what construction
materials are nearest to hand. Concrete and masonry dams require hard rock foundations;
rockfill dams are built on rock but have been built on alluvial deposits; earth dams can be
built on rock and also on softer, weaker formations such as firm clays or shales. Masonry
dams are still built in developing countries where labour costs are low. Where labour costs
are high they have generally been replaced by mass concrete, which is compacted by using
immersion vibrators or, in recent years by roller compaction. It was not until the middle of
the nineteenth century that concrete and masonry dams began to be designed according to
mathematical analysis of the internal and external forces coming upon them; nor until the
first quarter of the twentieth century was the behaviour of earth dams understood enough
for mathematical design procedures to be applied to them also. Since then advances in
dam design have become so specialised that only the salient principles involved can be
given here.
   For a successful dam construction the following conditions need to be fulfilled.
(1) The valley sides of the proposed reservoir must be adequately watertight to the
    intended top water level of the reservoir, and they must be stable under the raised
    water level.
(2) Both the dam and its foundations must be sufficiently watertight to prevent dangerous
    or uneconomic leakage passing through or under the dam.
(3) The dam and its foundations must be strong enough to resist all forces coming upon
    them.
(4) The dam and all its appurtenant works must be constructed of durable materials.
(5) Provision must be made to pass all flood waters safely past the dam.
(6) Provision must be made to draw off water from the reservoir for supply and
    compensation purposes, and for lowering the reservoir water level in emergencies.
                                                                      5.3 Watertightness     153


5.2      Essential reservoir conditions
The reservoir site formed by the dam must not leak to an unacceptable degree, and the
hillsides forming the reservoir basin must be stable under all possible water level
conditions. A proposed reservoir site must always be subjected to a detailed geological
investigation to ensure that no fault zones, hidden valleys, or permeable strata exist
through which unacceptable leakage would take place. In addition the nature and stability
of the hillsides to the reservoir under Waterlogged conditions must be investigated.
Inundation of hillside materials increases their unit weight and decreases their cohesion, so
that, if the water level in the reservoir should be rapidly lowered, the loosened wet material
slides into the reservoir. This happened in the Vaiont Dam disaster of 9 October 1963 in
Italy 2 when a landslide of gigantic proportions fell into the reservoir, causing a 100 m high
flood wave to pass over the crest of the 206 m high arch dam causing the deaths of 3000
people in the valley below. The dam was not destroyed but the reservoir was afterwards
abandoned.



5.3      Watertightness
All dams leak to a greater or lesser extent: the danger to be avoided is that the leakage does
not carry with it material from the dam or its foundations. Hence as much as possible of
all such leakage should be collected by an underdrainage system and delivered to a
collecting basin where it can be continuously measured to reveal any signs of increase, and
inspected to see that the drainage water is not carrying material with it. The Dolgarrog
disaster 3 in Wales on 25 November 1925 - the last to cause any loss of life in U K - was
caused by continuing leakage below a low concrete wall only 3 m high used to heighten the
level of water in Lake Eigiau. At one point the wall had been taken only 0.5 m deep into
clay foundations, and leakage at this point so widened its passage that there was ultimately
a sudden breakthrough of the lake waters. The wave of water destroyed another small dam
below and engulfed the village of Dolgarrog, causing 16 deaths.
   To reduce seepage below the foundations of a dam two methods are in common use:
(1) the construction of a 'cutoff' trench across the valley below the dam;
(2) grouting the foundations beneath the dam to reduce their permeability.
A typical cutoff is illustrated in Fig. 5.1 and it is taken down sufficiently far to connect into
sound rock or clay at the base. It is usually filled with concrete, the trench being about 2 m
wide. The junction of the top of the cutoff with the corewall of the dam is a matter
requiring the most careful design: Fig. 5.1 shows the concrete finished in the shape of a
'spearhead' so that the clay could be brought down on either side of it. A variety of designs
have been adopted. It is also important to extend the cutoff wall into the abutments of the
dam to reduce seepage around the ends of the dam. The dam shown in Fig. 5.1 is typical of
early dams which had a puddle clay corewall (see Plate 3); in the 1950s rolled clay
corewalls came into use and puddle clay was no longer used.
   A wide, shallow cutoff is shown in Fig. 5.2 and this is used where a sound foundation
material exists not far below ground surface. The corewall material, in this case 'rolled
clay' which is a mixture of clay and coarser materials, is taken right down to the bottom of
the cutoff.
154   Dams, impounding reservoirs and river intakes




Fig. 5.1 The Taf Fechan dam; South Wales, 1928 (engineers: Binnie and Partners).


   Some cutoffs have been extraordinarily deep and therefore difficult and expensive to
construct. The classic case is the cutoff for the Silent Valley Dam for Belfast, 4 which
reached a maximum depth of 84 m before sound rock was met. Cutoffs of up to 30 m deep
have been common, but very deep cutoffs are seldom necessary today because of the
development of techniques of grouting which are cheaper to adopt. As a 'rule of thumb',
cut-offs are generally taken down to between one-half or equal to, the depth of retained
water above. Two-thirds the impounded water depth is an often used figure, but may need
to be adjusted locally for particular geology.
   It is sometimes necessary to construct fill dams over alluvial deposits of high per-
meability. In such cases a cutoff can be formed by constructing two diaphragm walls about
6 m apart and grouting the intervening materials. The walls can be formed by sinking
tangentially bored concrete piles 0.3-0.5 m diameter, 5 or by using smaller 0.2 m diameter
overlapping 'secant' micropiles. Alternatively a trench of the required width is excavated
in short lengths by clam-shell grab, the walls of the trench being prevented from collapsing
by keeping the trench full of bentonite clay mixture. Concrete is tremied to the base of the
trench and brought upwards, the displaced bentonite being piped away for re-use in the
next contiguous section of trench excavated. Plate 8 shows use of this technique for
construction of a diaphragm wall within the puddled clay corewall of an old dam to
improve its watertightness.
   Grouting consists of drilling vertical or inclined holes into the ground at intervals (see
Fig. 5.3) and injecting into such holes mixtures of water and cement, or clay, or chemical
mixtures. This mixture penetrates into the bedding and joint planes of any permeable
strata which are cut and, when the grout sets, such fissures and joints are thereby sealed
off. The drill holes have to be close enough for the grout to form a continuous
impermeable barrier or 'curtain' from hole to hole. It is usual to grout a series of primary
holes first, spaced perhaps 6 or 7 m apart, then to sink secondary holes between these, test
them for permeability and grout them, and then if necessary to sink tertiary holes between
them. The spacing of holes to form an effective grout curtain varies according to the type
 of strata penetrated, but is usually in the range 1.5-5.0 m. Sometimes several parallel rows
 of holes are grouted to form a wide band of grouted ground.
  400m                                                                                                                                            !
                                                                                                                                                      Rolled sandstone type B
                                                                                                750mm           376ml                                 /
                                                                        . . . . . . .              \   366.5m   ~                                       ~ 2 1m fine filter
               /~m                                                      i.::)m ires ora,nlng g r a v e l ~~   mJ . / / _/c~i t                          ~--~-'~..~"2.
                                                                                                                                                         -            l m coarse filter
  350m         /_    /1.5m free draining gravel               CL            Class II riprap     ~     /   /                                   ~         ~ I b ~ .    600ram c~
                  /         Top of closure dam ~--~-_.....~__~ ! 329m                     X~, ~       ~-J              /                  /       J     ~r~       -~=~... 1.5m gravel fill
              I /           removed             320                                                                                           0
              ' ( Washed                   ~                                                                                                            .           \ Rolled SaruusTnnp ~_--~--~        lm gravel drain
               '\ ~ gravel fill        ?)                                                                                                                            ~type-,~     .......     ~@,~,.,      )

                \\                      ..7                                                                                     ;'" Ill Ha~176
  300 m
                                                                                                                                                                                       /                ~ - -
                                             halsurfaceof und 1.2mcoarsefilter'\-Z.,                                                 k
       Bedrock level             ~- ~~ - - - v       ._
                                                          ~L,
                                                                ,~    . . - _ , ,      '   f T~               . . . . . .

[ 250~m                                      Fine f i l t e r / '    Clay blanket ( l m grave rain        r=1-~ " ~ : " ~ 'Lr   --       ~ ' ~ F "''~       ineWaShedfilter
                                                                                                                                                                         gravel             to 276.7m
                                                            Grouted cutoff       Alluvium                                                                                                          Foundation level
                                                                                                                                                  |
                                                                                                                                                        Type    B   drainage wells 45m deep at 7.5m c/c
/Datum 214.4m SP__D. . . . . .               L = 89         minus sound bedrock level) or 259m (whichever' is the_higher)___' i


Fig. 5.2      The Mangla Dam for the Water and Power Development Authority, Pakistan, 1968 (engineers: Binnie and Partners (Binnie et
al., Proc ICE, 1967-1968)).
Fig. 5.3   The Avon Dam for South Devon Water Supply (engineersi Lemon and Blizzard (Bogle et al., Proc ICE, 1959)).
                                                                   5.3 Watertightness    157


   Grouting is normally adopted to improve the watertightness of a rock which is already
basically sound, reasonably impermeable, and not liable to decompose even with some
leakage through it. In exceptional cases it may be economically justified to attempt to
grout materials other than fissured rock, such as sands, gravel, silts, clay, and mixtures of
these materials. 6 These are often difficult to grout despite use of a variety of methods, so
that complete success may not come to hand and additional precautions will have to be
adopted in the design of the dam to allow for unavoidable leakage.
   'Stage grouting' is often used. In this process 'packers' comprising expandable rubber
seals are fixed in the boring above and below a given length or 'stage' of borehole so that
water tests and grout can be applied to this section only. It is usual to adopt 10 m stages
working progressively upwards. When severely fractured rock, granular materials, or clay
are encountered it is difficult or impossible to fix packers, but then the tube-a-manchette
method can be used. The tube has slotted perforations at intervals down its length, each
perforation being covered on the outside by a thin membrane. The tube is lowered into the
borehole and the annular space outside it is grouted with cement grout. When the grout is
set, packers are inserted inside the tube above and below a given perforation and, with a
slightly raised 'breakout' pressure, the membrane is stretched and the annular grout in the
vicinity of the perforation can be fractured, permitting grout to be injected into the
formation at that level.
   After completing foundation grouting it is usual to ensure that the contact zone between
the dam material and the excavated ground surface is sealed by carrying out 'contact' or
'blanket' grouting, through a line of grout pipes with packers set above and below
foundation level. After sufficient height of the dam has been constructed to provide
weight, grout is injected into the pipes between the packers.
   Grouting can be highly successful but tales are legion concerning the damage that can be
done if the procedure does not come under careful control. Pushing too much grout under
too high a pressure into the formation may do nothing to reduce the permeability of the
ground, producing only lenses of grout. Sometimes the permeability of the ground can be
increased by inappropriate grouting techniques and, in one case on record, the whole of a
partially built dam was raised 150 mm or so by unnecessary grouting. It is important not
to use too high a pressure to avoid 'hydrofracturing' or rupture of the formation - unless
this process is intended for some special reason as advised by an experienced grouting
specialist. Normally the maximum pressure applied at the point of injection should not
exceed twice the overburden depth to that point. This holds for both grouting pressures
and water test pressures. Tests for assessing the permeability of a formation should always
be made on newly drilled, ungrouted holes: not on previously grouted holes. The water
leakage from a boring under test (or of a stage of it) is usually expressed in 'lugeons', 1
lugeon being 1 litre per minute per metre of boring under 10 bar head. The diameter of the
boring does not enter this definition as it has little significant effect on test results.
Permeabilities are expressed either in cm/s units or m/s units. A frequent target for
acceptable permeability of a formation after grouting is 1 x 10-4 cm/s.
   In some places low dams have been constructed on alluvial or marine deposits extending
to depths of several hundred metres making it impracticable to form an impervious cutoff.
Steel sheet piles have proved effective in lengthening the leakage paths, thereby reducing
the permeability below the dam and protecting its foundations.
   In practice, especially under concrete dams, two means of foundation treatment are used
together; an upstream grout curtain or cut-off is used to reduce seepage, and a
158   Dams, impounding reservoirs and river intakes


downstream drainage system is used to reduce uplift. If the foundation has a high natural
lugeon value then natural drainage exists and the focus should be on ensuring a cut-off. If
the foundation is 'tight', say less than five lugeons, then seepage will be low and the focus
should be on providing good drainage. In practice both systems are required over the
length of a typical dam foundation.



5.4     Strength of the dam
Every dam must be proof against failure by sliding along its base. This applies whether the
dam is of concrete, masonry, rock, or earth. Resistance to failure against shearing through
any plane is another criterion to be applied. Usually the resistance of rock and earth dams
against sliding or direct shear is ample on account of their large width. However masonry
and concrete dams have failed in this manner. An early failure in 1844 was that of the
Bouzey Dam in France, 7 a 19 m high masonry dam which moved 0.35 m downstream
under the static force of the water. It was cemented back on its foundations, but 11 years
later in 1895, it split horizontally about the middle. Another failure was that of the St.
Francis Dam on 13 March 1928 which was a 60 m high concrete dam feeding Los
Angeles. 8 It was placed on weak foundation material, so that a section of the dam broke
out and a flood wave 40 m high travelled down the valley at 65 km/hour, causing 426 lives
to be lost.
   Concrete or masonry dams, being constructed to much steeper slopes than earth dams,
have to be proof against overturning. Where concrete dams are arched, the abutments
must be strong enough to take the end thrusts of the arch, and the foundations must be
strong also as they may be highly stressed. The failure of the Malpasset Dam in France 9 on
2 December 1959 illustrates the catastrophic nature of an abutment failure. The arched
concrete dam was 60 m high but only 6.5 m thick at the base. It was judged afterwards
that, owing to rock joint pressurisation, the left abutment moved out ultimately as much
as 2 m causing rupture of the arch in a few seconds, instantaneously releasing the whole
contents of the reservoir which engulfed the Riviera town of Frejus 4 km downstream. The
dam was completely swept away.



5.5      Durability of a dam
Durability is of the utmost importance because dams are one of the few structures built to
last almost indefinitely. In Italy the Gleno Dam, ~~ a multiple arch dam 43 m high,
suddenly failed on 1 December 1923 when one of the buttresses cracked and burst in a
matter of a few minutes. The cause was attributed to poor quality workmanship: the
concrete in the arches was poor and inadequately reinforced with scrap netting used as
hand grenade protection in the war and there was evidence of lack of bond with the
foundations (see Plate 5).
   The durability of an earth dam is primarily dependent upon the continuance of its
ability to cope with drainage requirements. It has to contend with seepage, rainfall
percolation, and changing reservoir levels. The movement of these waters must not
dislodge or take away the materials of the dam, otherwise its condition and stability will
deteriorate at a progressively increasing rate. It must perform this function despite long-
term settlement of itself and its foundations (see Section 5.14).
                                                           5.6 Design flood estimation   159


Overflow and outlet works

5.6       Design flood estimation
The assessment of flood risk is a vital element in the safe design, maintenance and
operation of impounding reservoirs. Earth dams are inherently erodible and uncontrolled
overtopping can lead to catastrophic failure. Also overtopping of a rockfill, masonry or
concrete dam needs to be avoided except where the design specifically provides for this. It
is therefore necessary to specify a design flood, in combination with wave action, which
the dam must be capable of withstanding. Greater security is required against dam failure
where there is a major threat of loss of life and extensive damage and a lower security
where the threat is less severe.
   A wide range of methods are used for computing reservoir design floods. These methods
include:
9     empirical and regional formulae;
9     envelope curves;
9     flood frequency analysis;
9     various types of rainfall-runoff and losses models, including the unit hydrograph, the
      US Soil Conservation Service, the transfer function, and the Gradex methods.
A publication entitled The Design Flood (Guidelines) produced by the International
Commission on Large Dams (Committee on Design Flood) contains useful summaries of
the more commonly used methods and their limitations. The report also contains general
guidance and recommendations about reservoir design flood estimation, some of which
are the following.
9     The calculation of design flood is a complex design problem requiring the con-
      tributions of specialist engineers, hydrologists and meteorologists whose involvement
      must be sought through the whole process.
9     The choice of the design flood involves too many and varied phenomena for a single
      method to be able to interpret all of them.
9     All methods available are based on meteorological and hydrological records both for
      the river basin under investigation and often for other comparable areas. The results
      derived from the application of a particular method will essentially depend on the
      reliability and applicability of the data adopted.
9     The exceptional circumstances causing extreme floods are often such that the records
      of historical moderate floods may provide only a very poor indication of conditions
      during a Probable Maximum Flood (PMF) or a 10 000 year event.
For dams in the UK the key advisory document is the third (1996) edition of Floods and
Reservoir Safety ll which recommends the levels of protection for different categories of
dam. The recommended floods and waves protection standards in the UK are shown in
Table 5.1. Chapter 3 of Floods and Reservoir Safety guides the engineer on the use of the
1975 Flood Studies Report ~2 unit hydrograph rainfall-runoff and losses model to derive
reservoir design flood inflows, while Chapter 5 contains a method for estimating wave
surcharge allowances. The Flood Studies report has recently been superseded by the 1999
Flood Estimation Handbook 13 which presents the Flood Studies Report unit hydrograph
and losses model in an updated and rationalised form. Volume 4 of the Flood Estimation
160   Dams, impounding reservoirs and river intakes


Table 5.1 Flood wind and wave standards by dam category according to Floods and Reservoir
Safety, ICE 1996

                                                     Reservoir design flood inflow
                                                                                     Concurrent
                                                                   Minimum           wind speed and
                                   Initial reservoir                standard if      minimum wave
Dam      Potential effect of       condition                       overtopping       surcharge
category a dam breach              standard          General       is tolerable      allowance
A.        Where a breach           Spilling long-    Probable    10 000-year
          could endanger           term average      maximum     flood               Mean annual
          lives in a community     inflow            flood (PMF)                     maximum
                                                                                     hourly wind
                                                                                     speed. Wave
B.        Where a breach (1)       Just full         10 000-year   1000-             surcharge
          could endanger lives     (i.e. no spill)   flood         year flood        allowance not
          not in a community                                                         less than 0.6 m
          or (2) could result
          in extensive damage.


C.        Where a breach         Just full           1000-year     150-year          Mean annual
          would pose negligible (i.e. no spill)      flood         flood             maximum
          risk to life and cause                                                     hourly wind
          limited damage                                                             speed. Wave
                                                                                     surcharge
                                                                                     allowance not
                                                                                     less than 0.4 m


 D.       Special cases where      Spilling long-    150-year      Not applicable Mean annual
          no loss of life can be   term average      flood                        maximum
          foreseen as a result     inflow                                         hourly wind
          of a breach and very                                                    speed. Wave
          limited additional                                                      surcharge
          flood damage would                                                      allowance not
          be caused                                                               less than 0.3 m

Note. Where reservoir control procedures require, and discharge capacities permit operation at or
below specified levels defined throughout the year, these specified initial levels may be adopted
providing they are stated in the statutory certificates and/or reports for the dam.




Handbook currently provides the most up to date advice on reservoir flood estimation in
the UK.
   The statistical analysis of flood events has a very limited role in reservoir design flood
estimation in the UK. The reason for this is that extrapolation of statistical flood estimates
to the high return periods relevant to freeboard and spillway design may lead t o gross
under- or over-design, given the relatively short period flood data typically possible. Flood
estimates become increasingly unreliable when the return period of the design event is
greater than about twice the length of the record. It is not possible here to provide a guide
to each of the methods of flood estimation currently employed. The following paragraphs,
                                                           5.6 Design flood estimation    161


however, provide some basic guidance on the unit hydrograph rainfall-runoff method
which has been used for design flood estimation in many countries.


Unit hydrograph approach
There are numerous different forms of unit hydrograph and loss models, but all are similar
in that they convert a rainfall input to a flow output using a deterministic model of
catchment response. These deterministic models have three common elements:
9   the unit hydrograph itself which often has a simple triangular shape defined by time to
    peak;
9   a losses model which defines the amount of storm rainfall which directly contributes
    to the flow in the river; and
9   baseflow (i.e. the flow in a river prior to the event).
Where possible the model parameters should be derived from observed rainfall runoff
events. If no records exist the model parameters may be estimated from catchment
characteristics.
   A unit hydrograph graphs the flow from a given catchment resulting from unit effective
rainfall in unit time on the catchment, e.g. the flow following, say, 10 mm effective rainfall
falling in 1 hour. It assumes the rainfall is uniform over the catchment, and that runoff will
increase linearly with effective rainfall. Thus the runoff from 20 mm of effective rainfall in
one hour is taken as double that due to 10 mm and so on, and the ordinates of the
hydrograph are doubled. Similarly if rainfall continues beyond the first hour, the principle
of superposition can be used, the resulting hydrograph being the sum of the ordinates of
the hydrographs for the first, second, third, and so on, hours.
   Due to the complexities involved, the derivation of a catchment unit hydrograph from
storm rainfall and runoff records is best carried out by an experienced hydrologist. Losses
by evaporation, interception and infiltration have to be deducted from rainfall, and the
baseflow has to be deducted from the measured streamflow. A complication is that rainfall
events will seldom be of unit duration, so further analysis is required to produce a unit
hydrograph for unit time and unit rainfall. It is usual to derive several unit hydrographs
from separate rainfall events for comparative purposes and, where a catchment is too large
for uniform rainfall intensity over the whole of it -to be assumed, it is necessary to treat
individual tributaries separately and assess their combined effect.
   One relatively straightforward method of obtaining an adequately severe unit hydro-
graph is suggested by the US Bureau of Reclamation ~4 as follows.
(1) Time Tc of concentration is given by


            in Imperial units                         in Metric units
            Tc - (11.9 L3/H)0"385hours                Tc = (0.87 L3//-D 0"385 hours


    where: L = length of longest tributary (miles-km); H = fall of this tributary (feet-
    metres); Tc = time elapsing between onset of storm and time when all parts of the
    catchment begin contributing to flow to measuring point.
(2) Time to peak Tp for the hydrograigh for one inch of rainfall over the catchment is
    given by
162    Dams, impounding reservoirs and river intakes


      Tp = 0.5(rainfall duration) + 0.6Tc
    where Tp, Tc and rainfall duration are in hours.
(3) Peak runoff rate Rp

in Imperial units                                                     in Metric units
Rp = 484 AQ/Tp ft3/s                                                  Rp = 0.2083 AQ/Tp m3/s
where A is catchment area (sq. miles- km2) and Q is the unit rainfall (inch- mm).

   Use of this formula tends to over-estimate flood peaks in temperate, flat and permeable
areas, for which a simple triangular unit hydrograph, with a base of 2.5 times the time to
its peak should suffice. Its peak flow will equal 2.2/Tp rn3/s for each km 2 of catchment for
every 10 mm of effective rainfall. The value of Tp often lies in the range 1.3(area) ~ to
2.2(area)) ~ where the area is in km 2.
   A variety of alternative loss models can be incorporated into the unit hydrograph
approach. The two most common are:
(i) to derive a single percentage runoff value applicable throughout the whole storm; and
(ii) to adopt an initial loss x mm at the start of the design storm followed by continuing
     losses of y mm/hour throughout the event.
Once each of the model elements has been defined for a catchment, the unit hydrograph
method may be used to estimate the total runoff from any rainfall event. The design
rainfall will be in the form of a hyetograph defined by a depth/duration characteristic of
the area and arranged into a selected storm profile. A 'bell-shaped' profile is most
commonly used for storm events up to about 24 hours duration, whereas the recorded
profiles in severe historic events are used to define more realistic design storm profiles for
longer duration events.
   The design storm rainfall may be a statistically derived design event to produce a flood
of specific return period (the T-year event), or may be a probable maximum precipitation
(PMP) to produce a probable maximum flood (PMF). Rainfall depth-duration-frequency
values, sometimes including estimates of the PMP, are available for many regions. Table
5.2 gives some examples of the PMP estimates adopted for the areas draining to a number
of major damsites, and Fig. 3.3 of Chapter 3 also gives information on maximum preci-
pitations that have been recorded.


5.7       Spillway flood routing
If a reservoir created by a dam is full to top water level, a flood inflow causes the reservoir
water level to rise and this causes increasing rates of discharge over the spillway to the
dam. This temporary ponding of water in the reservoir will result in the maximum
overspill rate at the dam being less than the maximum flood inflow rate to the reservoir,
and will delay its time of occurrence. The calculation of this maximum overspill rate is
termed 'flood routing'.
   The problem is that any inflow causing a rise in water level simultaneously increases the
rate of discharge over the spillway. To solve this problem step by step calculations over
short intervals of time are used.
   For any short time period ta-t2 = t
                                                                        5.7 Spillway flood routing    163


Table    5.2     Some probable maximum precipitation (PMP) estimates

                                                      PMP in mm
 Location                        Country              20 min   1 hour   6 hours    15 hours    24 hours
 South Ontario                   Canada               -        -        410        -            445
 Guma                            Sierra Leone           81     183      -          580          630
 Selangor                        Malaysia             -        160      300        -            460
 Shek Pik                        Hong Kong            101      220      -          915         1200
 Garinono                        Sabah                  81     162      420        620          675
 Brenig                          Wales
                                 May-Sept                 74   109       183                    254
                                 Oct-Apr                  38     72      165                    272
 Tigris                          Iraq                 -        -          60                    167
 (50 000 km 2)
 Jhelum, Mangla                  West Pakistan
 (2500 km 2 sub-area)            Dec-May                                185        -            295
                                 Jan-Nov                                365        -            575



    Inflow = storage increase + outflow
    Hence assuming, for small time intervals, the averages can be taken

               (11 + 6 )                         (O1 + O2).t                                         (5.1)
                           . t - ($2 - S 1 ) +       2

where 11, S~, O1 and I2, $2, 02 are the values of inflow, storage, and outflow at times t~ and
t2 respectively.
   Rearranging eqn (5.1) and dividing by t:

               (S2/t + 02/2) = ( S l i t - Oz/2) + (11 + / 2 ) / 2                                   (5.2)

The terms on the right-hand side of this equation are all known because 11 and I2 are
obtained from the flood inflow hydrograph, and S1 and O1 apply to the previous
conditions (including the start values). This gives the value of the left hand side of the
equation, from which it is possible to find 02 because a graph can be drawn of O against
(S/t + 0/2).
  Data required before calculations can proceed are:
9       the initial reservoir level and corresponding spillway overflow Oo;
9       a graph of storage volume, S, above spillway crest for height, h, of water level above
        spillway crest;
9       the overflow rate, O, for water level, h, above spillway crest;
9       any major drawoff from (or effluent discharge, etc. into) the reservoir.
Calculations proceed as follows.
(1) A graph of (S/t + 0/2) against O for say 1/2h time intervals, is drawn as follows:
    (a) compute values for O and S for incremental values of the head, h, over the
        spillway;
164    Dams, impounding reservoirs and river intakes

Table 5.3 Flood routing calculation

(1)            (2)            (3)            (4)           (5)
               Mean inflow                   Outflow 02    Reservoir level
Period 1/2h    (11 + I2)/2    S2/t + 02/2    from graph    above spillway
(h)            (m3/s)         (m3/s)         (m3/s)        (m)               Notes
0-2            1.9            12.0           1.9           0.14              Initial steady state
2-1            1.9            12.0           1.9           0.14
1-12           6.0a           16.1b          2.8           0.16
12-2           18.1a          31.4b          6.7           0.31

aValue from inflow hydrograph.
bprevious line Col (3) minus Col (4) + new Col (2).



    (b) sum (Sit + 0/2) for each increment of h and plot against O (where t = 1.8 x 103
          the number of seconds in 1/2 h).
(2) Draw up a table as Table 5.3.
       An initial steady inflow/outflow is assumed so that I0 = I1 - O1. Hence the starting
    value for (S1/t + O1/2) can be known.
(3) For the next and subsequent lines of the table, new S2/t + 02/2 = previous Slit +
    O 1 / 2 - O1 + new value (I1 + I2)/2 (as eqn 5.2 above). From the graph under (1) new
    02 can be obtained.


5.8      Diversion works and outlet culverts
When a concrete or masonry dam is built, the stream to be impounded may be taken
through an opening left at the base of the dam in the valley bottom, this opening being
finally sealed up when the dam is completed. Even if floods occur during construction of a
concrete or masonry dam and it is overtopped before completion, no serious harm need
come from the inundation if the construction is designed for this and the valley bottom is
composed of rock.
   It is not possible to follow this procedure with an earth dam which, if overtopped at any
stage, would probably be destroyed. Also, except in the case where an earth dam is
founded on sound rock (which is often not the case), it is undesirable to have a central
culvert left through the body of an earth dam. Even if the culvert is later filled with
concrete, or plugged with concrete at its upstream end, there is a danger that, unless it is on
hard rock, it will settle more at the centre under the weight of the full height of the dam,
than it does at the ends where it emerges from the dam. This differential settlement can
cause the culvert to fracture, or open up a path for impounded water to leak through the
junction where the culvert passes through the corewall of the dam.
    The near failure of the Lluest Wen Dam in South Wales in 197015 illustrates the danger
of a culvert through the centre of an earth dam even when the foundation is rock (see Fig.
 5.4). The dam was built in 1896 in a coal mining area. A 'pillar' of unmined seams of coal
was left below the dam but there was land settlement outside this pillar and this, combined
with the weight of the upstream drawoff tower, caused the plug of concrete in the culvert
 to fracture within the zone of the puddled clay corewall. A small 150 mm drain pipe
                                                                                                                                       5.8 Diversion works and outlet culverts                                                                                    165

                                                                                                                                                                                           2m deep hole in crest




                              407.0~                                                                                    ~ [I                               I                          ~', ~ ~ , ~ / o z ) e


                                                                      t                                       Clall                                        t
                                                 ..                   i                                                            /
                                                 ;;!                                                                                                           \
                                Steel            '"                   "                                                              \
                                'mid-feather'                                                                              /           \
                                (i.e. steel ~                                                                             / Soft clay      \
                                                 Z"                                                                                         /
                                plates)          ~:                   I ~'                                               / with          /                                                                                Profile of
            q~                                   .:                   .                                                 / pockets        [
                                                 :::                                                                    t          of sand                                                 I                  ~puddle           clay
                                                 "'
                                                 :!:
                                                 ,,,                                                                /                               [                                      ~                             as found


                ~-------r---
                     l                                                                                                           I         I
                                                                                                                            Very soft clay!
                -r- -,          Forebay          "~                   I                                                          I         /
                                masonry          :,;                  ,             [                                                               j                                          /
                                wall             :.                                                                                                                                                     /               Timber
            q                                    .,,

                                                 :::                                                                                                                                       ',~Gap~                                            Clay and stones
                -                                :::                                                                                                                                       t                                                  above plug
                .....--"7"_                      "                                  I                                                              ~" ........ ' ..... % . . . . .                      "



                =                  387.0 m I L                    ~,.                       ,l-                               -:-~-:-"~*'r"-'-'~-~:"''~
                                                 7 . 7 . .~
                                                         . o.:
                                                            o . ' ... . ..' ~.: ~.- : .- ' . -    o : . . ..,:," o : . /. .; '..       , . , :.,
                                                                                                                                       ,"           ~. .       , o : '.-. ,. . ~. .' . :           o"       99 .-=if'...."
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o..                          ;'.:.=..:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            : , o 9 d. . : . : . ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '-,~;::




                                                                                                                                                                            u p pe torn
                                                                                                                                                                                    l Y off
                                                                                                                                                                                        F l a n g                                                          pipe
                                                                                                                                                                           drainage pipe
                                                                                                                                       150mm drain to valve well


Fig. 5.4 Cause of the Lluest Wen Dam failure. 15


through the plug was fractured also and, into this fracture seepage occurred bringing with
it clay from the corewall. After an unknown length of time, probably of several years, a
2 m deep hole appeared in the crest of the dam 20 m above and, shortly afterwards clay
slurry began emerging from the drain pipe. The dam had to be considered in danger of
imminent failure because, once the puddle clay corewall of an earth dam is penetrated by
impounded water, complete failure can follow rapidly. Emergency measures were taken to
lower the reservoir water level and the dam was later restored by inserting a concrete
cutoff wall through the clay corewall into bedrock below.
   Instead of taking a culvert through an earth dam it is best to drive a tunnel through the
abutment where differential settlement is unlikely. The same tunnel can then be used for
housing the drawoff pipes from the reservoir. Alternatively the culvert should be trenched
into the foundation rather than standing proud where it can become a focus for local soil
rupture due to differential settlement.
   The flood discharge capacity of the diversion works required during construction
should reflect the consequences of damage should a larger flood occur. Early during
construction the consequences of under-capacity may be slight. Later insufficient capacity
may entail loss of the entire dam. It is not uncommon therefore to design the return period
for diversion which increases as construction develops. Diversion works may initially be
required to accommodate the one in 5-year flood, but eventually be required to take the
166   Dams, impounding reservoirs and river intakes


one in 50- or one in 100-year event immediately prior to dam closure. Each case has,
however, to be considered individually taking all the relevant circumstances into account,
such as the nature of the formation, the type of dam and proposed method of
construction, including the possibility of cofferdamming the dam foundations which could
allow some ponding to alleviate the flood peak; or some ponding might be possible when
the dam reaches a certain height- providing the reservoir can be kept empty in advance of
a flood. Rainfall, runoff and flood routing studies need to be carried out to find the critical
circumstances applying at each stage of the construction. The prudent engineer will
additionally take all extra safety precautions which are possible at low cost, but some risk
is unavoidable. In the case of the Oros dam in Brazil 16 a diversion tunnel of 450 m3/s
(38 900 M1/day) capacity had been built, but 600 mm of rainfall fell on the catchment in a
week and, despite all efforts to raise the half built dam to beat the rising waters the dam
was overtopped on 25 March 1960 and virtually destroyed, having to be rebuilt (see
Plate 6).


5.9      Provision for passing flood waters
Spillway works can be classified into three types:
(1) overflows which permit water to flow over the crest of the dam;
(2) structures constructed to discharge via an opening or culvert through a dam, or a
    tunnel driven through an abutment;
(3) side channel spillways which convey overflow water through an open channel
    constructed on natural ground at a dam abutment or at a low point on the reservoir
    perimeter.
The crest of a dam has generally to be high enough above the maximum water level in the
reservoir under flood conditions to prevent waves and spray passing onto the crest. For an
earth dam the usual practice in the UK results in the top of the embankment being 2 m
higher than the sill of the overflow weir, in addition a substantial wave wall capable of
protecting the bank against spray from wave action must be provided. For dams in other
parts of the world - where reservoirs and floods can be of much greater magnitude than in
the U K - substantially higher freeboards may be necessary, as for instance in the case of
Mangla Dam (Fig. 5.2) where 10 m is provided.

Direct discharges over a dam

Direct discharges are permissible over concrete or masonry dams and some rockfill dams,
if provided with a suitably designed spillway. The practice is cheap because very little
alteration to the profile of such a dam is necessary to accommodate the overflow section.
Typical examples are shown in Fig. 5.3 and Plates 10 and 11. The water usually cascades
down a smooth or stepped face of the dam. At the foot of the dam the water must be
turned into a stilling basin to disperse some of its energy, because the main danger with
this type of overflow is scour at the toe of the dam during a high flood. Sometimes the
water is ejected off the face of the dam by a ski-jump, which throws the water some
distance away from the toe of the dam, thereby lessening the danger to the toe. It is
essential that all the construction is massive and soundly based upon solid rock. The
design is not appropriate to a valley where good hard rock does not appear in the river bed
at the dam and for some distance downstream.
                                                 5.9 Provision for passing flood waters 167


   Sometimes an additional feature of a concrete or masonry dam is the inclusion of
automatic crest gates to the overflow weir. The gates permit water to be stored above
normal top water level of the overflow sill but, after a certain level is reached, the gates are
opened automatically and permit increasing discharge over the weir. This permits
increased storage without increasing the flood overflow level. But, except in the case of
some concrete dams on hydro-electric schemes in Scotland, gates have seldom been used
on dams in the UK because storm conditions might interfere with the power supplies for
operating the gates at the crucial time.
   Another method is the use of a siphon hood over the weir crest. Upon a predetermined
level being reached in the reservoir the siphon comes into action, and its discharge per unit
length of siphon crest is more than would occur for the same water head over a fixed weir.
However little increase in the discharge capacity occurs when the reservoir level rises above
the siphon. The main use of siphons is to provide additional capacity to existing under-
designed spillways. They are not suitable for use in cold climates where ice formation in
winter might block or decrease the capacity of the siphon.

Spillway channels
Flood waters are frequently discharged via a spillway channel around the end of a dam, as
shown in Plate 4. Such spillways should be constructed on natural ground and not on the
dam itself where settlement will occur. The construction has frequently to be massive, of
concrete or masonry, because of the need to prevent dislodgement of any part under flood
conditions when the scouring force of the falling water may be very great.
   At the upstream end of the channel there will be an overflow weir, usually with a
rounded crest that will not be damaged by floating debris. The collecting basin
immediately downstream of the weir must be designed to take the water away without
any backing up of water on the weir. At the downstream end of this relatively level section
of channel across the abutment, critical depth of flow will develop where the channel falls
away more steeply acting. This critical depth of flow acts as a control point for the flow of
water (see Sections 10.8-10.13). A design problem is that the floor of the collecting basin
and channel upstream of the corewall of the dam will be subject to uplift when the
reservoir is at top water level or overflowing, and the channel floor must bond to the
corewall of the dam to prevent leakage below the floor. The overflow will pass at
increasing speed down the steeper part of the channel, and sometimes attempts have been
made to destroy some of its energy by constructing piers or steps in the channel, but they
may not be very effective and can cause spray which erodes any soft material behind the
walls of the channel. At the base of the spillway channel a 'stilling basin' is constructed to
dissipate some of the energy of the fast-moving water. The most usual method is to induce
the water to form a hydraulic jump within the stilling basin (see Section 10.12).

Bellmouth overflows
A bellmouth overflow (see Figure 5.5) may be adopted where the expense of cutting a
spillway channel is great, or where a tunnel has to be constructed through one of the
abutments for the diversion of the river during construction of the dam. The bellmouth
must be constructed on firm ground, either clear or almost clear of the toe of the dam. If
built within the body of the dam, its settlement might cause disruption of the fill of the
dam, or the different levels of fill against it might cause it to tilt. The discharge over the
168     Dams, impounding reservoirs and river intakes

                                                            Valve operating house

                                                                                                                                                                  Access footbridge              Dam
                                                                                                                                                                                                 abutment


Top water level                                                                                     of circular spillway
Operating                                                                                                                                              Concrete                                   ~7~
spindle to
outer gate on
lowest drawoff
                                                                                                                                                                                      underlay
   Top
   drawoff
      Inner or
      operating
      valve
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Grouting
    Outer or                                                                                                                    Heavy precast or                                                 curtain or
    guard valve                                                                                                                 stone blocks
                                                                                                                                                                        Shale abutment           centreline
   Middle ....                                                                                                                                                                                   of dam
   drawoff                                           .;.'1'." I,tl I l I l I IIH. I j                                   Reinforced

                                                                                                                        valve shaft




      Lows.,,
      drawoff-
                    .~"
                       :.
                                       | . ...
                                          'o     "
                                                            [I"                         .
                                                                                                      !i  ..
                                                                                                                                                 sc.e
          Scour                                                                    "~   :             I                                  -   .................


      Valve                                                             -'-
                               "   9"     "                             , "','. Supply pipe turned
      chamber      "        ---~'~    *--'~'-                            " ' , ~'~", inside t u n n e l )

              Compensation         y                 .                                      ~         . . . . - " "" ~ ~ -            Concrete surround to pipe - -
              supply pipe
                                                     ,.,,    ,...              9    .       .   .   . . ,          :,   - ' -                                       ,     o   - . .


                        Jet disperser                        l      9   .,,,            "','          i        "

                        to scour outlet



Fig. 5.5 The bellmouth spillway and drawoff tower of the Tittesworth Dam in Staffordshire
(engineers: Binnie and Partners2~


bellmouth lip may be computed as if the lip were a straight weir of equivalent length,
provided that the diameter of the vertical shaft and the dimensions of the tunnel are
sufficient to take all the water away up to the designed maximum capacity. The bellmouth
shaft may be vertical or sloping and it may join the tunnel with a smooth or sharp bend.
The vertical profile of the bellmouth is usually designed so that no negative pressures, i.e.
pressures below atmospheric, can occur on it. 17
  The junction of the base of the shaft with the tunnel requires careful design: the falling
water brings with it appreciable quantities of air and the design should be such that this air
does not accumulate at the soffit of the tunnel reducing its discharge capacity. Discharge
characteristics vary with the head. Initially the discharge over the bellmouth lip will govern
but, as the head increases, the bellmouth will become drowned and control will shift to
orifice flow through the throat of the spillway shaft, or to flow through the tunnel
dependent on their respective capacities. A disadvantage of the bellmouth spillway is that
there will be little increase in discharge capacity after the discharge changes from weir to
orifice or tunnel flow control.
   Dangers arising from cavitation (see Section 12.20) must also be avoided. The
phenomenon occurs when the high speed of the water reduces its pressure, so that air in
solution and water vapour is released in minute bubbles. When swept to an area of higher
pressure, such bubbles collapse with implosive force causing pitting of any adjacent
                                                            5.10 Drawoff arrangements 169

surface followed by rapid erosion. The damage that can be done by cavitation is
extraordinary. Plate 6 shows damage believed to be caused by cavitation 18 at the Tarbela
dam in Pakistan in 1974. The fast flowing flood water eroded over 3 m thickness of
concrete tunnel lining within about 24 hours.
   An advantage of the bellmouth overflow and tunnel, apart from use of the tunnel for
river diversion during construction, is that the supply pipe and compensation water pipe
may be led through the tunnel. The scour valve may discharge directly to the base of the
bellmouth shaft. By these means access to the pipes for maintenance is possible during
periods when the reservoir is not overflowing. But a bellmouth overflow is not suitable in
climates where substantial ice may form on the reservoir during winter. Also, even for
small reservoirs the size of the bellmouth and its throat must be large enough to allow
passage of any debris that might be brought down by the river. The bellmouth presents a
danger to sailing and fishing boats when the reservoir water level is high, so guards must
be fixed around its perimeter and these must also be designed not to hold back floating
debris that could restrict the bellmouth discharge capacity.




5.10     Drawoff arrangements
Except when a reservoir is shallow, drawoff pipes are usually designed for withdrawing
water from a reservoir at several different levels. A usual provision is three levels of
drawoff: upper, middle and lower. The choice of levels is dependent upon the depth/
volume relationship of the reservoir and the expected variation of quality with depth,
which may change seasonally. The upper drawoff must be a sufficient distance below top
water level to avoid constant changing from it to mid-level drawoff with normal reservoir
level fluctuations. The bottom drawoff level may need to allow for siltation. On each
drawoff there are usually two valves, or else an outer sluice gate and inner valve. The inner
valve is used for normal operation, the outer valve or sluice gate is used to permit the inner
valve to be maintained. A typical arrangement is shown in Fig. 5.5.
   A drawoff tower used with an earth or rockfill dam should not be sited in the body of
the dam but near an abutment or elsewhere for the reasons given in Section 5.8. Where a
reservoir is not impounding, but is a bunded storage reservoir for receiving pumped
inflows, the tower may also be used for transfer of water into the reservoir. With a
concrete or masonry dam there is no objection to making the drawoff structure part of the
dam.
   A scour pipe is required for a reservoir to ensure the approach channel to the lowest
drawoff is kept free of silt, and to make it possible to lower the water level in the reservoir
at a reasonably fast rate should any weakness become apparent in the condition of the
dam. The scour capacity should preferably be enough to lower the water level by at least
one-quarter of the full ponding height in a period of 14-21 days during a period of rainfall
on the catchment equal to the average for the wettest month. This reduction usually means
that both the volume of water stored and the stresses on the dam will be substantially
reduced. Such a rate of lowering may not be feasible for a very large reservoir, but it is still
important to size the scour so that, in conjunction with any other drawoff the water level
can be dropped at a reasonable rate during the average wettest month.
170   Dams, impounding reservoirs and river intakes


Earth dams
5.11 Types of design
To avoid a misunderstanding it is necessary to mention that the term 'earth' does not
mean that tillable soil can be used in an earth dam. All such 'soil' must be excluded
because it contains vegetable matter which is weak and, in its decomposition, could leave
passages for water percolation. The first operation when undertaking an earth dam
construction is therefore to strip off all surface soil containing vegetable matter. The dam
can be constructed, according to the decision of the designers, of any material or
combination of materials such as clay, silt, sand, gravel, cobbles, and rock.
   Earth dams of 'early' design had a central core of impermeable 'puddle clay', supported
on either side by one or two zones of less watertight but stronger material. Examples are
shown in Figs 5.1 and 5.6. The central puddle clay core is impermeable but its structural
strength is low. This clay core must join to a cutoff in the ground below. The earliest dams
had clay filled cutoff trenches, but use was soon made of concrete to fill the cutoff
although the corewall continued to be made of clay. The inner zones of the shoulders of
the dam contained a mixture of clay and stones, so was impermeable to some extent but
the stony material added to its strength. The outer zones would contain less clay again and
more stones, perhaps boulders and gravel. The main purpose of the shoulders was to hold
the inner core of clay and add strength to the dam. Boulder clay (a glacier-deposited
mixture of clay, silt, and stones with boulders) was a favourite material for this outer zone
in the UK because it had the right characteristics and there were extensive deposits of it in
those areas where impounding schemes developed.
   Many such dams have been and continue to be successful. Their outer slopes were
decided by accumulated experience and were often 3:1 upstream and 2:1 or 2.5:1


               -g---                 -                       .       ~    ;~ ~ - 2         7,~.
               |                                           Pltchmgitchlng~,,                      .Clayey material (selected)placed in 0.6m layers

           43m high             ~             ~                  ~               ]                                    Stony material placed in 1.2m layers
                       ;                                                                                             ."




                                            base of puddle                                 Concrete corewall
         (a)

                                                                               /Concrete coping

                                    150ram s o i l               ~- 131.1
                                                                      _ ~ .m/ ~r. ~    f      50mm concrete slabs T op water level 29.7m



                           .   S J I ;            ~": . i : . ~ _ . : ~ : ~           ~lttiaedl .-L L    I   ~   :         ? - - f Concretes--labs -     14J6m




         - - -                                                    London clay          2- .         .        .         .

         (b)


Fig. 5.6 Dams with puddle clay cores: (a) the Ladybower Dam (Hill, JIWE, 1949) and (b) The
embankment of King George VI Pumped Storage Reservoir, London (JIWE, 1948).
                                   5.12 Pore pressure and instrumentation in earth dams     171


downstream, with flatter slopes for the higher dams. The choice of material and design of
the dam were decided by the engineer responsible. There were few measurement tests that
could be applied. Although many new kinds of tests are now available, earth dam
construction still involves judgement from experience and constant supervision as the
work proceeds to ensure a sound construction. Only a minute proportion of the variable
earth materials in a dam can be tested, so construction must always come under con-
tinuous detailed supervision by an experienced engineer.
   Today a puddle clay core is no longer used. Instead the rolled clay core, made of a
mixture of clay and coarser materials, 'rolled down' by compacting machinery, is used. It
usually has a base width of 25-50% of the height of the dam to limit the hydraulic gradient
across it. It is stronger than puddle clay and does not have to be placed at such a high
moisture content so it is not so liable to erosion by seepage and, being spread over a wider
area at the base, is not so susceptible to leakage at foundation level. A dam of this sort is
shown in Fig. 5.2. Sometimes a dam may consist wholly of rolled clay with only an outer
protective zone of coarser material on the waterface for protection against wave action.

                               9      ~          2:1     ~          Pillar




                        Reinforced          ~    drain                  Drainage mattress
                          core wall              Concrete cut-off

Fig. 5.7 The Gyobyu dam for Rangoon, Burma 1940 (engineers: Binnie and Partners).

   An alternative used is the concrete corewall: Fig. 5.7 shows one of the earliest examples.
Such a corewall may be more expensive than rolled clay, but it gives the advantage of
being able to use a wide variety of materials for the shoulders, including quite permeable
material such as sand. It results in a dam of good strength. The concrete corewall needs to
be constructed in panels so that the joints between panels can be sealed with flexible sealers
after the concrete has contracted upon cooling, and also to allow for small vertical
movements due to compression of the foundation or lateral movements caused by the
water level in the reservoir rising and falling. A concrete corewall is not, however, suitable
where the foundations are soft.
   With modern methods of analysis much more complicated designs for earth dams can
be adopted than formerly. The principal aim is to use as much locally available material as
possible because this keeps the cost of the dam as low as possible. The problem for the
designer is how to incorporate the available materials in the dam in a manner which uses
their different characteristics efficiently and safely.



5.12     Pore pressure and instrumentation in earth dams
An earth dam is built in layers of material, 375-450 mm thick, which are compacted with
vibrating or heavy machinery. The material has to have an 'optimum moisture' content to
172   Dams, impounding reservoirs and river intakes


achieve maximum in situ density. In crude terms, if the material is too wet, the voids
between the grains of material become filled with water keeping the grains of material
apart so that proper compaction cannot be achieved. If the material is too dry, there is
insufficient water lubrication for the compaction machinery to cause the grains to move
together. Hence in hot dry weather the layers of fill may have to be watered; but if the
material is too wet it cannot be properly compacted. Often in the UK earth dam
construction has to be suspended in winter. This however depends on the type of material
being placed because different materials have different optimum moisture contents for
good compaction. This optimum moisture content can be ascertained by a standard
compaction test, known as the Proctor test. Often an earth dam construction specification
will require the fill to achieve at .least 95% Proctor optimum compaction.
   As an earth dam is heightened the lower layers of material are compressed by the added
load. This may cause moisture in the material to fill the pores between the material grains.
Any further load is therefore resisted, not by grain-to-grain contact of the soil, but by the
pore water, whose pressure therefore rises. This pressure can be measured by burying a
piezometer- a small cell with a porous membrane - in the fill as shown in Fig. 5.8. The
piezometer, its tubes and the pressure gauge are filled with de-aired water to avoid
discrepancies caused by air coming out of solution in the water. The pore water pressure
can be measured by the piezometer, and if the pressure equals the weight of the material
above the instrument (termed 100% pore water pressure) an unstable condition exists.
Any additional load from further heightening of the dam will therefore only be carried by
the pore water, so the lack of grain-to-grain contact may cause the material above to slide
out along a 'slip failure' line. Piezometers placed in the fill can therefore record the
development of pore water pressure and, if this becomes too high, further placing of
material in the dam may have to be stopped for a time to allow the pore water time to




                    0'a"ich0,0e m
                     ~------
                     Ann,. back~li~lreSgarCe
               ~             grouted
                                                                     ~~,                 Piezometer
                                                  Porousmaterial /t/t~                   (BishOPwat
                                                                                                forteyrpe)
                    1~   ~ Clayseal
                    Ifii~11" Porous
                    tUI           ceramicpot
                    I:/i:.:!----- Sand backfill
                                                  Smailbore , ~


                                                  tubing ~             C~
                                                                            ; ....


                                                                             I
                                                                                       A de-airi____~_ng
                                                                                       ~ .....

                                                                                       BPressure
                                                                                     o ~ De-~redgauge
                                                                                                 water
                                                                                                  ..~

                    I~         around pot
                     I~ ~      Lower clay seal
                               (if required)             Valves A and B closed after de-airing.
                                                         C and D opened alternately for pressure
                                                         readings (should be same each leg)


            (a) Casagrandetype                                    (b) Bishop type

Fig. 5.8 Pore water pressure sensing devices.
                                                                    5.13 Stability analysis in dam design   173


drain out. Drainage layers of suitably sized gravel are often incorporated at intervals in the
material to speed up pore water drainage.
   Piezometers placed in the upstream shoulder of an earth dam can register how the water
level in the shoulder rises and falls with the reservoir water level. These can show how fast
the water drains out of the upstream shoulder with a fall in reservoir water level. This is
important in order to avoid a slip failure due to 'rapid drawdown'. Lowering the water
level in a reservoir too rapidly may leave the shoulder material above undrained, so that its
extra weight coupled with its high moisture content may induce a slip. This 'rapid
drawdown condition' is particularly important during the early life of a dam when full
consolidation and strength of the material may not have been reached. It is also important
if faced with a need to pull down the reservoir level in some emergency; it must not be done
too fast or the upstream shoulder may fail, adding to the emergency. Piezometers just
downstream of the corewall to the dam at low level can show pressures which indicate
leakage through the c o r e w a l l - especially so if their pressure rises and falls with reservoir
water level. It is thus possible to keep watch on the behaviour of an earth dam through use
of piezometers.
   Other instruments can measure the slow settlement of a dam; these consist of buried
plates in the fill attached to non-metallic telescopic tubes. At each plate a magnet is
attached so that a sensor lowered down the tube can measure their elevation. Internal
horizontal movements are detected by lowering an inclinometer down a tube left in the fill,
and markers permit surface movement and settlement to be detected by precise surveying,
which must be based on benchmarks outside any land settlement caused by the dam and
the weight of water in the reservoir.


5.13     Stability analysis in dam design
Figure 5.9 shows how a circular slip failure can occur in an earth dam if the shearing force
along the slip plane is too great for the material to resist. To calculate the factor of safety
against the material sliding out along the circular path. it is necessary to consider unit
vertical slices of the material because the pressure on the slip plane varies from top to
bottom. 19
  Taking moments about O for any slice of width ~Sx
                                                    moment of weight about O         nSl(c' + ( N - u))tan q~'
         Factor of safety - F =                                                    =
                                                  resistance to sliding along base           r Wsin a
(neglecting the force between adjacent slices). Where: r, 6l, W and a are as shown in Fig.
5.9 and c' = the apparent cohesion of the material; u = average pore water pressure along
~5l; N - u = the effective intergranular stress normal to 6l; 4~! = the angle of shearing
resistance for the effective stress.
   Substituting W cos a/6l for N and simplifying this gives
                         6lc' + ( Wcos a - ~/u)tan ~'
         F   E




                                    Wsin a
 If u is expressed as a percentage, p, of the weight of fill per unit area u = p W/~Sx, and
noting 6l/6x = 1/cos a
                         6lc' + (Wcos a - p W / c o s a ) tan 4~'
         F   _   _   _




                                         Wsin a
174    Dams, impounding reservoirs and river intakes


                                      o



                                     tZ




                                 8             W




                                                   ~N                   Wsina


Fig. 5.9   Slip-circle stability analysis.


  If d and q5t can be taken as constant along the whole slip plane, the factor of safety for
the whole slice

                                          c'L + tan qS' ~-~'~(Wcosa - p W/cos a)
           F (for whole slice) =
                                                           Wsin a

where L is the whole length of the slip.
   To calculate this, the individual slice computations are tabulated and summed.
   Where partly submerged slices occur, W has to be split into Wa for the weight of the
portion above the water level and Wb the submerged weight below. In addition u.6x/cos a
has to be substituted for p W/cos a where u is the excess of the pore water pressure above
the water level in the fill in each case.
   A large number of slip circles with different radii and centres have to be tested to find
the one giving the lowest factor of safety. Some of those used in the design of the Mangla
dam are shown in Fig. 5.10. Slip circle analysis applies only to unit width of the material,
whereas in practice a slip can be three-dimensional, e.g. saucer-shaped. Wedge-type
failures can occur as illustrated in Fig. 5.11. 20'21 These more complex modes of failure can
be investigated by computer analysis which can also take account of a range of different
materials in a dam, the various conditions applying during stages of construction, and fast
drawdown of reservoir water level which can cause instability of the upstream
embankment.
   Because of uncertainties which always exist in material properties, standards of
construction, confidence in predicted values of loading, scale effects and modelling
inaccuracies, safety factors are always incorporated in designs. For initial construction,
where pore water pressures may be temporarily high, or for transitory loadings such as
earthquake, acceptable factors may be as low as 1.0-1.1. For rapid drawdown during the
life of the embankment a higher figure of, say, 1.3 may be used. For normal longer term
loading of the embankment, safety factors of around 1.5 are more usual.
                                             5.14 Drainage requirements for an earth dam            175


                                     )                                              [-400


                                                                                    !-3oo

                                                                                    i 2oo




                                                           9    .   .   ,   .   .




Fig. 5.10 Typical slip-circle stability analysis results for the upstream slope of a proposed design for
the Mangla Dam. The results show a minimum factor of safety of 1.55 for the assumptions made.
(This is Computer run no. 111 (150 circles) and is for static conditions with 57 m sudden drawdown.)
(Engineers: Binnie and Partners.)



5.14     Drainage requirements for an earth dam
The preceding sections illustrate that an earth dam is subject to continuous water
movements within it. Water levels in the upstream shoulder rise and fall with reservoir
level; the downstream shoulder has a moisture content which rises and falls with rainfall,
and it may have to accept some inflow from seepage through the corewall and from
springs discharging to its base and abutments. The principal requirement is that all these
water movements must not dislodge or carry away any material of the fill.
   Drains are therefore necessary within a dam to accommodate the water movements that
occur. However a drainage layer of coarse material, such as gravel, cannot be placed
directly against a fine material such as clay, or water movement would carry clay particles
into and through the drainage layer. The removal of the clay would progressively enlarge
leakage paths until serious danger of disruption of the fill and breakthrough of water from
reservoir would be reached. Every drainage layer of coarse material has therefore to be
protected by a 'filter'. The filter material must have a particle size small enough to prevent
the fine material moving into it, and coarse enough to prevent its own movement into the
larger material of the drain. Sometimes two filters have to be placed when there is a large
difference in size between the fine material to be drained and the coarse material of the
drainage layer. All such drainage layers must convey their water individually to inspection
traps where the flows should be regularly measured, and the water inspected to make sure
it is not carrying suspended material from the dam. Any flow of cloudy drainage water
from a dam should be tested for the amount and size of suspended solids it carries. An
example of a drainage layout as adopted is shown in Fig. 5.12. The main drainage system
comprises a 'chimney' drain against the downstream slope of the core for the transfer of
seepage flows to a 'drainage mattress' laid at formation level, discharging to an outlet
176              Dams, impounding reservoirs and river intakes

                                                                             i
                                                                                            Upstream coping stone
                                                                             I

                                                                             I

                               185.9 m OD~                   Profile after slip                                                           Bank trimmed to this
                 Probable                      ~ - - ~ 7.?                                                                                profile before slip                                     .....
                  slip line ~       ~.~                __~7,             Heave /                                                                                                                  unglnai Derm
        Rockfill         ,,
                      ~..-~    ~.    .":".-."
                                         :.- :..      '    ~                   ~                                                                                                                  removed
      177.4 m OD ~ - : _ ' 3 -
                                  :so. c,_a
                                    _ ~ ~ ~ ~ _
-~'----- - - (31ay with c(~biesys----- -- -F'k\b""~
                                                                              /
                                                                                                                c]a-;~-/Z"
                                                                                                                                                           Heave
                                                                                                                                                           .......
                                                                                                                                                                                       /
                                                                                                                                                                                       /~                   Silty gravel

  -       -_-       -   -   - -   -   - -    -   -   - -   -   -_----                                                                          ...~;_.__...---..--_._...:                : : - - - . . 2 - ~ - ~ _ - - ~

 _                      _ ~         _        _        _ i.~!\--_       _~     _        _ %"     Shale bedrock 167.6 m OD
                                  Shale bedrock      "7~~:' Puddle core                      Silty clay
                                              Cutoff                      Probable slip line            Datum 161.5 m OD

Fig. 5.11(a) Failure of the Tittesworth dam 1960. Removal of a small berm to part of the
downstream shoulder of this 100-year-old dam caused a wedge-type failure through its puddled clay
corewall. Later investigations showed the dam had failed in the same area before and not been
properly rebuilt.


                                                                                                                                                      210 m O D ~  /
            Original profile of dam                                                                                                                  / ~,/o- -- --r-J(..~.(- - [ - ~
          O Displacement vector                                                                                                       I,,~,//                  // [ ~.~
 -----      Slip surface                                                                                                       ,~__~I~~              9 ~-J:.!.i:!:"
 v,,-~ ,,-~ Core material after slip                                                                    ~               '                   '.~ ::~ ~-(',                                  /" i~"0/~'
                                                                         ~;;i~:~                                ~.: : ' . ) : : - - : : - :                                  :i:L<~,'~" / .,~9;"!

                                  _~~~':S~ale/mudsione
                                                                         9       9 ."   9   .   .   .       9                           ...,      .   ..   9. ' . ; '                ,.,-,,-,v~


  175 m OD                                                                                                       sh9ulder..,!4:~ i" :~+~.~.~.,~"~w,~"~                                                     [       ;

                ~ 9",,.-..', ' ",.
                               7 . (. ,: '. . "..
                                              . . . 9"..-.
                                                      '. :.:....".'. - .."
                                                                       _ . ."" ~
                                                                               " " ,"": :"- . . ~: :.".-
                                                                                                     - --'-". .",,77,,~,7,,c~-~,,J^
                                                                                                                . . . 2-_.-. , - ~ -                    ~ " . . . . . . . . . . T". . . . . . . . . .
                 . . . . 9. . . . . . . ~ .                                 ".~." 522-.----~"--"^..                                 ~>................ ire'Boot sha-ed corewell
      I                                        I                                  I Yellow clay                        I Toe of corewell I                 of rolled clay I
 100                                        80                             60                40                                                                         20                                0
                                                                        Upstream offsets from ~ (m)

Fig. 5.11(5) Failure of Carsington dam 1984. The mechanism of failure was attributed to
overstressing of material near the toe of the corewall as construction neared full height. As each
segment moved to a reduced residual strength under strain, more stress came on adjacent material
leading to progressive slip circle failure.



c h a m b e r at the d o w n s t r e a m toe of the d a m . D r a i n a g e 'blankets' are laid at intervals in the
u p s t r e a m e m b a n k m e n t to relieve p o r e pressures t h a t build up d u r i n g c o n s t r u c t i o n a n d for
d r a i n a g e of the u p s t r e a m s h o u l d e r d u r i n g rapid d r a w d o w n .



5.15                        Surface protection of earth dams
T h e u p s t r e a m face of an earth d a m m u s t be p r o t e c t e d against erosion by w a t e r a n d w a v e
action. C o m m o n forms of p r o t e c t i o n are: (1) stone pitching, (2) riprap, (3) c o n c r e t e
blocks, (4) concrete slabs, a n d (5) asphaltic concrete. Stone pitching, either g r o u t e d or
o p e n jointed, is generally f o u n d on older dams. R i p r a p is f o r m e d by r a n d o m p a c k i n g o f
pieces of rock; they m u s t be large if wave action is expected to be s t r o n g a n d s h o u l d
                                                             5.15 Surface protection o f earth dams               177

     800mm Riprap on 300/300mm Filter
                     200mmthick
                    drainagelayers   ~         161 Om        )      150 mm Soiling and turfing
     154.0 m Full supply level ~     ~         " ~ ~
            .-=- m          .        ..   \                  "5"1     //~.,...           200mmthick
                                                                                   3.. 1 drainagelayers
                                                                                             ,3.1


                      Foundation material      Core      \          \ material         \. . . . . . . . . . . '
                                                                     \ ..........       250/500/500mm
                          level               material               500mmChimneydrain mattresslayers
                                                                 Groutcurtain

Fig. 5.12 Cross-section of 48 m high Upper Muar dam in Malaysia constructed of residual clay soil
material on weathered rock overlying granite bedrock (engineers: Syed Muhammed, Hooi Binnie).




preferably be hand placed and locked together with small pieces of rock between the large
pieces. Beneath the rock must lie layers of material which act as filters between the large
rock and the finer material of the dam which must be prevented from being drawn through
the rock surfacing. When concrete slabs are used for protection they need to be placed
without open joints to avoid dislodgement by wave action, but drainage of the fill through
them should be possible. They should be laid on one or two graded gravel filter layers.
   For many years slope protection of dams has been designed empirically, with satis-
factory results in most cases. 22 A conventional rule used by many engineers required the
depth of riprap or concrete blockwork on dams in the UK to be not less than one-sixth of
the 'significant wave height'. ]~ The 'Rock Manual '23 provides criteria for the grading of
riprap, but further research into the behaviour of the surface protection material, granular
underdrainage and embankment material is needed before detailed design procedures can
be established.
   Erosion of the downstream face of a dam by rainfall runoff must be prevented. It is
usual to achieve this by turfing the surface of the dam or by soiling and seeding it with a
short-bladed strongly rooting grass. If the dam is more than about 15 m high then,
according to the type of rainfall climate, berms should be constructed on the downstream
slope, each berm having a collector drain along it so that surface runoff is collected from
the area above and is not discharged in large amounts to cause erosion of the slope below.
Cobbles or gravel are sometimes used to surface the downstream slope. Surface drains on
the downstream slope should discharge separately from the internal drains to the shoulder.
   It is unwise to allow any tree growth on, or at the foot of, the downstream slope of an
earth dam. Some tree roots can penetrate deeply in their search for water and drainage
layers could be penetrated by such roots. Also the presence of trees may obscure proper
observation of the condition of the slope. A damp patch, or development of a depression
on the slope may indicate internal drainage systems not working properly or some leakage
through the corewall. Any signs of this sort need to be investigated. It is best to treat the
downstream slope uniformly with the same type of grass or turf throughout since this
helps to disclose any discrepancies that might need investigation.
178   Dams, impounding reservoirs and river intakes


Concrete and masonry dams
5.16 Gravity dam design
It is primarily the weight of a gravity dam which prevents it from being overturned when
subjected to the thrust of impounded water, z4 For the prevention of sliding, the dam must
be sufficiently wide at the base, and adhere adequately to foundations of strong rock. In
carrying out calculations to determine the stability of any proposed section for a dam,
'uplift' must be taken into account. Uplift is the vertical force exerted by seepage water
which passes below a dam or which penetrates cracks in the body of the dam. Maximum
or '100% uplift' on any section through a dam would be a triangular force as shown in
Fig. 5.13 which assumes the upstream value equals the pressure exerted by the maximum
water level during flood conditions above the section. Below the base of the dam, the force
is trapezoidal if, at the downstream toe, there is potential uplift from any tailwater level.
   Taking these three forces into account - uplift, water thrust, and weight of dam - the
accepted rule is that the resultant of these forces should pass within the middle third of the
section being analysed. This ensures that no tension is developed at the upstream face of
the dam. At first sight the foregoing appears illogical since the assumption of 100% uplift
assumes a crack exists, which the design should prevent. However, perfect construction
everywhere is not likely to be achieved and cracks might progressively develop if there is
any tension at the face. Even if no crack exists, there can be uplift pressure in the pores of
concrete of the dam due to the passage of seepage. Figure 5.14 shows pore pressures
measured inside the concrete of the Altnaheglish dam in Northern Ireland where concrete
deterioration had occurred and before remedial work was undertaken. This pore pressure
acts, of course, only on the proportion of the concrete which consists of voids so that the
total uplift is only some proportion of the concrete area multiplied by the pore pressure.
   In order to reduce uplift from seepage below a dam, a concrete-filled cutoff trench may
be sunk at the upstream toe as shown in Fig. 5.14. Even if this cutoff does not make the
foundation rock wholly watertight, it lengthens any seepage path and thus reduces uplift
below the base. Relief wells or drainage layers can be inserted at intervals below the
downstream half of the dam base; these also reduce the total uplift. With these provisions
the amount of uplift assumed in the design can be less than '100% uplift'.
   Ice thrust may have to be taken into account in the design of gravity dams in cold
climates. Estimates 25 of the thrust force vary according to anticipated ice thickness, and
range from 2.4  105 to 14.4  105 N / m 2 of contact with the vertical face of the dam.
Seismic forces from earthquakes also have to be considered; it is now accepted that minor
seismic damage can occur in areas, such as the UK, previously thought to be free of
earthquake risk.
   The design of gravity dams appears deceptively simple if only the overall principles
 described above are considered. In fact controversy raged for more than half a century
 over the subject of how stresses are distributed within a gravity dam, until computer
 programmes permitted computation of stresses using two- or three-dimensional finite
 element analysis. The method determines displacements at each node, and stresses within
 each element of the structure, the latter being considered for analysis as an assemblage of
 discrete elements connected at their corners.
                                                                                                  5.17 Gravity dam construction               179




                            - - -(P1 )- p
                      Water
                      pressure




                                                                                                                Normal stress on base
           Total water pressure
                                                                                            ;.~                according to classical
                                                                                                               theory (reservoir full)
           on upstream face
                                               i::.i
                                               s                               CM

               Probable actual
               normal stress is
               distributed similar
                                                ....
                                               ...
                                               v.


                                                                               IWeight of
                                                                                structure

                                                                           .27----==-
                                                                                                                         Maximum
                                                                                                                         compression not
                                                                                                                         to exceed safe
               to curve A or B
                                                                                                                       i stress
                                                                                                                         compressive
                                                                                                                                of material
                                                                                                                         of dam or
                                                                                                    .-'.,.2.
                                                                                                                         foundations
                Value of uplift                                            k                                    ..-"


                pressure taken                                                      ',            .-""
                varies according
                to design of dam                                           I pressure . ~ .
                (usually one-third
                to two-thirds
                maximum                                        /   f
                                                                       1


                pressure at toe)
                                                           /
                                                       t

                                     i,t
                                           /
                                                i
                                                                           Note:
                                                                           Both uplift and also the distribution of normal
                                                                           stresses are in practice greatly affected by details
                                                                           of design, such as cutoff, drainage galleries etc.

Fig. 5.13 Simple stability analysis of a gravity dam showing the effect of uplift. As well as taking
into account uplift on the base of the dam, it may be necessary to take into account uplift acting
below any portion of the dam above sections 1-1, 2-2, etc. (this is not shown on the diagram). If the
resultants R1, R2, etc. of the forces P and W, together with uplift as deemed advisable, come within
the middle third of sections 1-1, 2-2, etc. then theoretically no tension develops on the upstream
face.



5.17     Gravity dam construction
Concrete. The construction of concrete gravity dams is relatively simple. Most of the
remarks concerning the preparation of foundations and cutoff trenches for earth dams
apply also to gravity dams. The key problem with mass concrete dams is to reduce the
amount of shrinkage which occurs when the large masses of concrete cool off. Heat is
generated within the concrete as the cement sets and as this heat dissipates, which may
take many months, the concrete cools and shrinks. In order to reduce this shrinkage the
concrete is placed in isolated blocks and left to cool as long as possible before adjacent
blocks are concreted. 'Low heat' producing cement is frequently used, or ice flakes may be
added to water used in the concrete mix. In the larger installations, water cooling pipes
may be laid within the concrete to draw off excess heat produced. Concrete dams are best
constructed in areas where rock abounds which is suitable for the making of concrete
aggregates.
180   Dams, impounding reservoirs and river intakes

             Design
             flood level
             246.1 m _ _ ~ ,              ,._1 ~ D a m                      profile
             245.4 m           _   , . . , , - - - .   .




                                   :.1[, \'~,.\                     .. SpilLway profile


                                                                                      Line of resultant, reservoir full,
                                                                                      100% uplift (triangular)
            Water level|
            September |
            1964
                                                                                      /          Original line of resultant,
                                                                                                 reservoir full, no uplift

                                                                                                       Pressu re as measu red
                                                                ', \ \        ',.         9 ,\         by pore pressure cells
                 33.5m                                                                                 at A and B




                                                                9     \
                                                            9        9 .\                 \ ~\


                                                           ""~]'-\, A
                                                            ' .. "..\  . .                                             Stilling basin
                                                                      ,~. ..B.
                                                                            Middlelthird "




Fig. 5.14 The Altnaheglish dam.



    At some locations concrete dams have been raised or strengthened by installing post-
tensioned cables through the concrete mass near the upstream face, and grouting them
into the foundation rock in order to provide additional vertical forces to counterbalance
the overturning moments introduced by increased water loads.
    Masonry. The construction of masonry dams is expensive because of the large amount
of labour required to cut and trim the masonry blocks. In the UK masonry dams are no
longer built, but elsewhere dams have had masonry facing and concrete hearting, primarily
to improve the appearance of the dam and also to avoid the need to provide shuttering for
the concrete. Overseas, particularly in India, construction of masonry gravity dams
continued but seldom for large structures due to the unpredictability of masonry
behaviour under seismic forces. Great care must be taken with masonry dams to fill all the
joints and beds completely with a watertight mortar mix and to pay special attention to the
quality and watertightness of the work on the upstream face. It was Dr G. F. Deacon's
insistence on this when constructing the 44 m high masonry Vrynwy Dam for Liverpool in
 1881 that has left the dam still in excellent condition nearly 120 years later. Up to then, he
r e m a r k e d - 'there was probably no high masonry dam in Europe so far watertight that an
English engineer would take credit for it'. 26
                                                                  5.19 Arch dam design      181


5.18     Roller-compacted concrete dams
Roller compacted concrete (RCC) has been developed as a time-saving technique for
construction of a concrete dam since it was first used in the USA in 1982. It consists of a
mixture of cement, water and rock aggregates that can support a roller and be compacted
into a dense concrete material. A sound foundation similar to that required for a
traditional concrete dam is needed, and then RCC can be placed in successive layers to
form a monolithic gravity dam structure. Dam stability requirements are similar to those
adopted for gravity dams. The major differences between RCC and ordinary concrete
dams are in the design of the concrete mix, the method of placing it, and the design of
spillways, outlet works, drainage and inspection galleries to facilitate RCC construction.
   Initially different approaches were made to the type of concrete which would prove
most economical for RCC dams. 27 One approach was to use a relatively lean and porous
mix for economy for the body of the dam, relying on upstream waterproofing for
watertightness, the latter usually comprising a thickness of richer, impermeable concrete
on the water face. The other approach was to use a 'high paste' concrete containing more
cement which was sufficiently impermeable not to need upstream waterproofing, and
whose greater tensile strength permitted economy in the profile of the dam by use of
steeper side slopes. Whilst both types have been adopted successfully, the lean mix dam
depends on the upstream waterproofing for watertightness and can suffer seepage if this is
not entirely effective; whilst the high paste RCC dam has a propensity to suffer shrinkage
cracking if constructed without contraction joints. The more recent trend has therefore
been towards use of a medium paste concrete, with formed or induced joints incorporating
some form of water bar. In Japan a number of high RCC dams have been built incor-
porating formed joints with a water bar and using concrete with a cementitious content of
120-130 kg/m 3 of which 30% may be PFA.



5.19     Arch dam design
The principle of design of an arch dam is greatly different from that of a gravity dam. The
majority of the strength required to resist water thrust is obtained by arching the dam
upstream and taking the load of the water upon the abutments. The abutments must
therefore be completely sound; if this criteria does not apply failure will occur. The theory
of design is complex: the dam resists the water partly by cantilever action from the base
and partly by arching action from abutment to abutment. Hence an arch dam can be much
thinner than a gravity dam (see Fig. 5.15). Early designs were based on the 'trial load'
procedure. The dam was assumed to consist of unit width cantilevers one way and unit
width arches the other. The water load at each point was then so divided between the
'cantilevers' and 'arches' that their deflections at every point matched. The modern
method is to construct a three-dimensional finite element model of the dam to evaluate
stresses under various loadings. Physical models are also often used to measure distortions
likely to apply; these are useful, partly as a check to the mathematical calculations and
partly as an aid to the calculations by giving a first approximation to the likely distribution
of stresses.
   There are many variations from the simple uniform arch shape, the most economic
section being curved both vertically and horizontally, i.e. the horizontal arches vary in
radii with level. A dam of this kind which curves 'both ways' is called a cupola dam and,
182   Dams, impounding reservoirs and river intakes


                       Crest crane
                                                          Emergency
                                                          gate
                                               516
                       TWL: 511




                                                             Scale
                 Emergency                       10           0                   10m
                 gate guide
                 Upstream
                 face of dam
                    Air vent

              15cm diameter
              seepagehole

                                                               3.65 m diameter conduit for
                                                               future hydroelectric station
                 RC trashracks
                                                                    Conduit interconnection
                                                                    and domestic water supply

                      423.9

                                 "        I       .-...    "',j;   . ,.-      ~   .:.-

                                 J l nspect!on g a l l e                   r ~
                                 ~":     ~ " ' : ' : ~                                       ) Foundations for
                                                              ....,.~:;:.~... i          ~     future power house
                                          1 \Pressure-relief~i/      ' ;i;~
                                             holes        """'7..... " ~
                                 Main cutoff curtain       ~         \      Lowest
                                                                     --     foundation level
                                                     Conduit drain

Fig. 5.15 The Dokan Dam for the Government of Iraq (engineers: Binnie and Partners) (Binnie et
al., Proc ICE, 1959).


although most economical in the use of concrete, it presents difficulty in the incorporation
of drawoff and scour valves because these are usually operated from above by means of
vertical spindles or shafts, but the upstream face of the dam is curved. River and flood
diversions are usually taken in tunnels through the abutments; occasionally flood overspill
may be passed over some central spillway. Arch concrete dams are among the highest in
the world and are inherently stable when the foundations and abutments are solid and
watertight. However the stresses in the concrete of the dam and in the foundations and
abutments can be very high so the utmost care needs to be taken in the site investigations,
and the design and construction. Whatever may be the results of the theoretical analyses of
forces and stresses on the dam, the engineer responsible for the final choice of design has
to ensure that a sufficient reserve strength is included in the design to meet unknown
weaknesses.
                                                     5.21 Rockfill and composite dams     183


5.20     Buttress or multiple arch dams
Where a valley in rock is too wide for a single arch dam, a multiple arch dam may be used
which comprises a series of arches between buttresses, as in Fig. 5.16. Each section of the
dam, consisting of a single arch and its buttresses, may be considered as achieving stability
in the same manner as a gravity dam. There is a considerable saving of concrete as
compared with a mass concrete dam: on the other hand this saving may be offset by the
extra cost of the more complicated shuttering required and the more extensive surface
areas requiring a good finish for appearance. A buttress dam has the advantage that uplift
is negligible, because the space between the abutments allows uplift pressure to dissipate.
Occasionally a buttress dam is advantageous when sound rock exists at a level which
would make a mass concrete gravity dam more expensive.
   Buttress dams are often used in connection with river control and irrigation works,
where many gates have to be incorporated to control flow. In this case there are no arches:
the buttresses are to gravity design and have to take the extra load from the gates when
closed.



5.21     Rockfill and composite dams
Rockfill dams are appropriate for construction at locations where suitable rock can be
quarried at or near the damsite, and foundations will not be subject to material settlement
due to loading or to erosion from any seepage through or under the dam. The design must,
of necessity, incorporate a watertight membrane which can comprise a concrete facing or
an earth core. If concrete facing is used, the cutoff trench must necessarily follow the curve
of the upstream toe of the dam in order to connect with it. The main difficulty with
construction is that the watertight membrane must be flexible because rockfill dams are
liable to continue to settle over long periods.
   Early rockfill dams of dumped rockfill, with embankment slopes of about 1 on 1.5 and
concrete faced, were satisfactory in service up to heights of about 75 m, but above that
height, face cracks and excessive leakage occurred due to compressibility of the dumped
rockfill. This problem was alleviated in the 1960s when vibrating rollers became standard
equipment for the compaction of rockfill; this permitted the use of smaller sized and
weaker rock. An earth core would be comprised of rolled clay, protected by zones of
transitional material between the clay and the rockfill which act as filters and also take up
progressive settlement of the rockfill. Usually two or more layers of transitional material
are necessary, grading through from clayey-sand against the corewall, to a crushed rock
with fines against the rockfill; the latter usually being graded with the coarsest material on
the outside.
   A variety of rocks can be used with modern methods of compaction; even relatively
weak rocks such as sandstones, siltstones, schists, and argillites have been used. It is usual
to examine all possible sources of available material and, by means of laboratory tests on
samples and pilot construction fills, to base construction procedures and zoning of
materials on the results of such tests. The specification for construction should set out the
required layer thickness, normally 1-2 m for sound rock and 0.6-1.2 m for weak rock, and
the number of passes required by a 10 tonne vibratory roller to achieve adequate rockfill
breakdown and strength. 28 A concrete membrane on the water face would usually be laid
on two graded filter layers, each 0.4-0.5 m thick, compacted in both the horizontal and
                                                                                                                  Horizontal construction joints
TWL     .. Left bank                                                                                              at 1.2m intervals                                                 Right bank
307.8m._O_D,-_ ,-:;-,~;-~_i .                 _                     .._        :         ._.     " .... .         --Z:! . _ . . , ; i '~./ v ".,'"--" ~                '   "i       ~ .i,.. L - - - - ~
            -L-   i
                          _~r--_ i i /
                           L       "~   l,I
                                                  \ i
                                                  "   Ir       .,
                                                                           ',,i /
                                                                           "   I!I   x
                                                                                             ',/
                                                                                                .d   i .
                                                                                                        - ,,,:" /
                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                       /
                                                                                                                       9
                                                                                                                             ",,~i .. ",,/           ",,                   i l-J:                  r-~-
                                                                                                                                                                                .      |




                                                                                                                           i   i,,    ,   ',   !   ;   i    :/~

                                                                                                                                      ~ ! ~ '_.--I-, i F ~ r ~ L J   \ T o p of foundatton
                                   9                       '         '     "q            : ',              : i                       ~"--'~-q i i--1-I--J               generally at orbel(:,w
                      9        scour                                               L-LLLj'''               i   i           ji " 11Z i - - J ~  River diversiOn
            Cutoff trench m i n i m u m depth                                                                  '                   Bottom of foundation benched to                         Upstream
            3.0m below buttress foundation                                                                                        suit rock as exposed                                     elevation

                          Overflow
                          block                                      _-.




                                                                               Top of concrete in cutoff trench                                                                 Foundation plan

Fig. 5.16    Elevation and plan of the Lamaload Dam, Macclesfield UK (engineers: Hebert Lapworth and Partners).
                                                                                5.21 Rockfill and composite dams   185


sloping planes. Watertightness of the concrete slabbing is achieved by sealing vertical
joints with waterbars. Horizontal joints are not required; construction joints being formed
with reinforcing steel passing through them.
   No concrete faced rockfill dams have experienced structural failure, hence a stability
analysis on an assumed failure plane would be an academic exercise. However such an
analysis is necessary when an earth core is incorporated to determine the extent to which
the core strength and pore pressures affect the dam's stability.
   A bituminous concrete facing can be used, and has an advantage over a concrete facing
in that it can absorb larger deformations without cracking. However it can still be
vulnerable to differential settlement at its connection with the cutoff. Cold weather affects
the flexibility of bituminous materials, hot weather causes-creep, and frequent variations in
temperature can cause fatigue; and ultraviolet radiation can damage coating that is not
submerged. Hence standard practice is to provide a protection layer and a membrane
sealer. Modern practice is to use a single 100-200 mm thick impervious bituminous con-
crete layer spread by a vibratory screed and then rolled by a winched vibratory roller.
   A centrally installed bituminous diaphragm wall avoids any problems with ultra violet
radiation, is less vulnerable to damage, and permits the cutoff to be constructed along the
centre-line of the dam. An example of an internal asphaltic core to a rockfill dam is shown
in Fig. 5.17 which is one of two dams at High Island, Hong Kong, 29 107 rn high which are,
unusually, founded below the sea bed across a sea inlet. The core consists of 1.2 m thick
asphaltic concrete, made of 19 mm aggregate mixed with cement and water, pre-heated
and mixed with about 6% of hot bitumen. Below a certain level the core is duplicated and
above a certain level it is 0.8 rn thick.
   An unusual early design of a composite rockfill dam is the 103 m high Shing Mun Dam
built in Hong Kong about 1937, 30 and shown in Fig. 5.18 and Plate 12. The upstream
watertight membrane consists of heavy concrete blocks securely jointed together. This is
supported by a concrete thrust block, which in turn is supported by the main rockfill.
Between the concrete thrust block and the rockfill, a sand wedge is interposed which is
designed to take up any movement of the rockfill. This bold and imaginative design
proved successful.


                                                       Riprap
                                                /

                          ~..                                     9              ~.
                    ~ r P e h a i t i c co:~:~t~ ~       ~                            /R,prap
                                                                                           .




           /          Transiti~176         +~-rn Rockfil," "~~----~'~118~
                                                                       ~Om
                    R~ . . .Gallery_-~~L.Ori l~alsea.bedlevel _.___.~
               c~                                         .....                                    . ....   ,




                       Transitionzone/ Groutc'!!'ii
                                             -~urlan           ~\x-,--~.,~z~-~-~,
                                                                      . . . . ...........
                                                                                 ~.-,.
                                                       Cementconcretebase
Fig. 5.17 High Island West Dam, Hong Kong, with asphaltic core membrane (engineers: Binnie
and Partners 29)
186    Dams, impounding reservoirs and river intakes

                    193.5
          TWL 190.5 _ _ _ ~ _ ~ ~ 189.5                          Scale
                        t~;l/:i:[/ L   /Sandwedge          0 10 20 30 40 50m
                     ~&.'~/.~it.l~         Batter9:1       ~ , , , , ,




                   7 ~              ~i',no~:p'pd          ~Squared              pitching




             100mOD

Fig. 5.18 The Shing Mun Dam forming the Jubilee Reservoir for Hong Kong (engineers: Binnie
and Partners3~



5.22     Seismic considerations
Seismic loadings need to be considered in the design of new dams and the appraisal of old
dams. In the UK the Department of the Environment has funded the preparation of a
guide to the assessment of seismic risk to dams. 31 An application note for the use of the
guide has also been prepared by the ICE. 32 These documents provide a structured
framework for the consideration of seismic risk similar to that adopted for floods.


5.23     Statutory control over dam safety
Regulations are adopted in many countries to ensure that dams are regularly inspected,
and are constructed or altered only under the charge of properly qualified engineers. In the
UK the Reservoirs Act 197533 was not brought into force until 1986; in the meantime the
earlier Reservoirs (Safety Provisions) Act 1930 remained in force. The 1975 Act followed
the provisions of the previous Act but added some further requirements. The Act applies
to all reservoirs having a capacity of 25 000 m 3 or more above the level of any part of the
land adjoining the reservoir and requires the Department of the Environment to establish
panels of qualified civil engineers authorised to design, supervise the construction or
alteration of, and inspect all such reservoirs. The main provisions are as follows.
(1) Initially the county and metropolitan local authorities were made responsible for
    keeping a register of all reservoirs in their areas to which the Act applied, and were
    required to act as enforcement authorities to see that the owners of such reservoirs
    complied with the Act. Some proposals have been made for the Environment Agency
    to take over the register of dams and to act as the enforcement authority, but have not
    yet been implemented.
(2) Where a new reservoir is proposed or an existing reservoir is to be altered, it must
    come under the control of a 'construction engineer' during design and construction,
    and afterwards, until this engineer issues a Final Certificate. He must issue a
    Preliminary Certificate permitting first filling of the reservoir, and his Final Certificate
                                                           5.24 Dam deterioration signs     187


      must be issued not earlier than 3 years nor later than 5 years after his issue of the
      Preliminary Certificate.
(3)   After the Final Certificate mentioned in (2) above, an independent 'inspecting
      engineer' must inspect the dam within 2 years and thereafter the same or another
      'inspecting engineer' must inspect the reservoir at not less than 10-year intervals, or at
      such lesser interval as is stipulated in any previous Certificate issued. The inspecting
      engineer cannot be the same person who acted as 'construction engineer', nor may he
      be an employee of the owner of the reservoir.
(4)   A panel (i.e. list) of engineers who are permitted to act as above is drawn up by the
      Secretary of State. Appointments of engineers to the panel are to be made for 5 years
      only, although an existing panel engineer whose term of appointment has expired can
      re-apply for appointment.
(5)   Various prescribed formats for records, reports and certificates are set out in
      Regulations issued under the Act.
The provisions of this Act and the earlier Act of 1930 have worked well in that they have
assisted in preventing any dam disaster in the UK for three-quarters of a century. An
unusual character of the Act is that it imposes a personal responsibility on the engineer
who issues a certificate. Such responsibility can only be effectively exercised by an engineer
having adequate experience of dam design and construction, and who has access to the
specialist services frequently required in making a proper inspection. Many dams in the
UK are 100-150 years old and may require careful attention to ensure their continued
safety.


5.24      Dam deterioration signs
Routine observations to ensure a dam remains in good condition are too numerous to list
here. Reference can be made to publications by the B R E 22 and by C I R I A 24 which provide
detailed check lists, but each dam requires its own specific programme of monitoring.
Obviously all instrumentation of a dam, such as settlement or tilt gauges, pore water
pressures and underdrain flows need regular monitoring plus checking for accuracy. Only
some matters of importance, principally related to signs of leakage, can be mentioned here.
   Good access to a dam is important and should be suitable for heavy constructional
plant which might be needed for repairs. The situation arising if emergency work should
be .required has to be envisaged. Night work under heavy rainfall and high winds with a
flood overflow may then be necessary. All gates, valves and other mechanical controls
should be in easily operational condition, and access to shafts, galleries and inspection
pits, etc. should be safe, properly ventilated and lit to safeguard against accidents to
personnel adding to the troubles of an emergency.
   The catchment needs monitoring for important changes of use, and for any evidence of
hillside movement that could indicate instability.
   For earth dams leakage may be evidenced by damp patches on the downstream
embankment or areas with unusually luxuriant plant growth, increased underdrain flows
or pore water pressures. But leakage may also cause settlement. When properly built an
earth dam should have smoothly regular upstream and downstream slopes; and the crest
should either be straight or to a pre-formed curve and show an even rise towards the centre
or highest part of the dam because a settlement allowance should have been given, usually
of about 1% of the dam height. Hence any irregularity of line and level of the crest, or any
188    Dams, impounding reservoirs and river intakes


depression in the embankments may be evidence of leakage. The upstream facing of the
dam, whether of riprap or concrete slabbing, also needs to be checked for settlement,
sometimes easily evidenced by the reservoir waterline against the dam not following an
even curve due to the settlement allowance, but showing a re-entrant curve. Concrete
slabbing of the upstream face should be checked for signs of uneven settlement which may
be caused by wave action pulling out the supporting material which is usually of gravel.
   The ground at the toe of an earth dam is often wet, sometimes supporting a growth of
rushes. The area is. of course, a natural collecting point for drainage of rainfall percolating
the downstream bank and adjacent hillsides. But a wary approach is necessary, because
undue wetness at the toe of an earth dam may be caused by a hidden defect within the
body of the dam, such as cracking, erosion or settlement of the corewall. All underdrain
inspection pits and drainage water should be examined for evidence of silt or clay being
carried out of the dam. The puddled clay corewalls of old dams are particularly vulnerable
to erosion through leakage, and thought must be given to the possibility the dam has
suffered leakage or settlement in the past which has not been effectively dealt with.
   Concrete dams can show signs of leakage by damp patches on the downstream face or
by growth of moss and lichen at joints. Signs of stress or movement in a concrete dam are
spalling of concrete at joints, opening up of joints and cracks, or displacement
irregularities, both on the surface of the dam and in any internal gallery or shaft. Since
displacement of shuttering when the dam was constructed, or initial settlement which has
ceased, can cause irregularities, it is important to log them and the areas where no
irregularities occur, so that any new signs of movement can be detected. In masonry or
masonry faced dams, leakage will be through joints, and cracking or fallout of pointing
needs investigation to see whether it is caused by weathering, mortar softening, increased
stress, or possibly acid water seepage attack.
   The flood discharge works to any dam need regular inspection for signs of settlement
and for any other irregularities which could induce scour which might damage the works
during a flood overflow.
   A 'trained eye' is necessary for the inspection of dams, especially for old earth dams,
where a small surface defect may eventually prove to be related to a dangerous condition
of the dam developing internally. Hence the need to investigate the cause of anything that
seems 'not quite right' or 'as it should be'.


5.25     Reservoir sedimentation
Figure 5.19 shows the range of suspended sediment loads experienced in rivers of different
size as reported by Fleming. 34 To these must be added perhaps 10-20% to cover bed load
which cannot normally be measured. Care must be taken to allow for unusually high loads
following earthquake activity or landslides, or where loess or recent volcanic ash deposits
are present. However, it is at reservoirs that sedimentation most concerns the water
engineer. Dams in areas of active soil erosion have been known to fill rapidly with
sediment in only a few years. Algeria has provided some of the best known cases of severe
sedimentation. Of 13 basins, eight produced 60-700 t/km 2 and five 1100 t/kin2. 35
However, serious sedimentation need not be expected where there is good cover of
vegetation. A survey of a few drained reservoirs in England showed a trapped sediment
volume which can be expressed as between 40 and 90 parts per million of inflow (by
                                         36
volume) over a life of about 100 years.
                                                                                                                        5.26 Fish passes              189


                                                                                 Km 2

                        1        10 2        10 3         10 4                       10 s       106         107       108           10 s
                10 9
                                                                                                                     9~                          '"



                10 8                                             .   .   .   .   .   .




                                                                                              Z z:                  -y = 382.5x0.9576

                10 7



         ....
          u')   10 s                                                                                                        .   .    .   .   .


          C
          C
          0                                                                              s.
         ---    10 s
          O

          C

          E     10 4               .... ~ ~/~.
         "O


          >.
          t_
                10 3                                                                                    . . . . .           ,                    .=
         >.
                                                                                                         9American data
                                                                                                        + Scottish data
                                                                                                        x English data
                10 2
                                                                                                        0 Canadian data
                                                                                                        A African data
                                                                                                        C Chinese data
                10                                                                                      z Indian data
                                                                                                        S Swedish data



                 10.1       1.0 ....    10          100          1000                    10 000
                                                                                                        J
                                                                                                     100 000
                                                                                                                            J
                                                                                                                        10 000 000
                                                                                                               1 000 000

                                                 Catchment area (square miles)

Fig. 5.19 Average suspended sediment concentration (after Fleming34).


   A sediment rating curve giving a relationship between flow and solids carried may be
obtained by sampling, 37 and then the average yearly amount carried into a reservoir may
be obtained from a cumulative flow duration curve. However it is well known that flow on
a rising flood frequently carries a larger proportion of sediment than on a falling flow, and
also the bed load contribution of material rolled or shifted along the bed of a river will not
be included. A severe flood may also move more material into a reservoir than is
contributed by several years of moderate inflow. Sounding of the deposits in a reservoir at
regular intervals of 5 years or so is a more direct method of measurement; and operation
of the scour valve will show whether heavy sedimentation near the outlet works is taking
place.


5.26    Fish passes
Where trout or salmon exist in a river it is necessary to provide a fish pass around a dam.
The design of fish passes is a matter on which specialist advice should be taken. In 1942 the
Institution of Civil Engineers published a report of the Committee on Fish passes which
gave some suggested designs. A fish pass consists of a series of shallow pools arranged in
190    Dams, impounding reservoirs and river intakes


steps, down which a continuous flow of water is maintained. It is essential to keep this flow
running with an adequate amount of water because when trout and salmon are in
migration upstream they will only be attracted to the pass by a good flow of water which
should be turbulent. Examples of fish passes are shown in Fig. 5.20. An alternative to the
fish pass is the automatic fish lift. This consists of an upper and lower chamber connected
by a sloping conduit throug.h which a continuous flow of water is maintained. Fish
migrating upstream enter the lower chamber. In due course the major discharge from this
lower chamber is automatically closed and the water level then floods up through the
conduit to the upper chamber. The fish rise with the water and then proceed out into the
reservoir at higher level. The cycle of operations is continuously repeated by automatic
controls.




            O v e r f a l l t y p e f i s h pass




                                                           o~

                   " "                     pipe    "   "   "":

            Orifice type fish           pass


Fig. 5.20 Two types of fish pass used in Scotland (Fulton, Proc ICE, 1952).


5.27     River intakes
It is surprisingly difficult to design a satisfactory river intake. Figure 5.21 shows the
conventional solution of a weir across a river to raise its level, with a gated side intake just
upstream. This solution is feasible only for rivers of moderate size which do not carry
cobbles, boulders or debris during a f l o o d - and also those rivers which do not alter their
course from time to time. On wide rivers, or rivers subject to high flood flows, the cost of a
weir becomes prohibitive because of the massive works necessary to prevent the weir being
undermined by scour and destroyed. On a rock foundation the weir will be less costly, but
a frequent problem is how to cope with the silt, gravel, cobbles and boulders brought
down by the river. In some rivers this bed load can be sufficient to fill the weir basin every
time there is a flood. In Cyprus where such conditions are liable to occur, the 'Cyprus
groyne intake' shown in Fig. 5.22 has been developed. The groyne weir, extending only
partly into the river, is sufficiently low to be overswept in a flood. Many other designs
have been tried for intakes on fast flowing rivers which carry much bed load. A round
'hump-backed' weir with slots in its crest feeding an intake conduit is sometimes used.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           5.27 River intakes                               191




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                 .......              U_%U-:
                                                                                                                                                       .



      Concrete toe-wall
                                                                                                                                                                               Drainage s~r~9
                    Sluice~                                                                      i                       i                                                                                                , ScOO(~a~
                                                              =              !~                    I                     ,
                 s,o~ ,~\,l                           ---
                                                             ~"
                                                              . . . . . .    'J
                                                                            t .....            "
                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                       0~.,~.... I
                                                                                                          ....       -'--
                                                                                                                         I            Crest of weir
       Aver~
        n~                                             Contraction joints                    I
                                                                                           _ ~ _ ~ ~ i
                                                                                                                                      below bridge
                                                                                                                                      450mm O.D~,                                                                                                       \
                                                              I
                                                             - .....
                                                                             ',
                                                                            ~ ....
                                                                                                ,
                                                                                               _; . . . . .
                                                                                                                      I~_
                                                                                                                     . ......                  ~--



        Concrete toe-wall /
                           t 9                    ~
                                                              :              I, ,~                 ,!                /~                       .~!


                                                                                                   Stop logs ~ J ~ ~ f / ~ \ " ~ , ~ W e i                                         . . . . . . der h . . . .
                                                                                           Wall with orifices-/"f~ ~        /                                         \~'_.~
                                                                                                                                                                       300ram RC wall, top level 165.8m OD,
                                                                                                                                                                       with two orifices to pass 3.96 cumecs
                                                                                                                                                                       at a water level of 164m OD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Scale
                                                                                                                                 .,                                            3               0           3       6   9                12        15m
                                                                                                                                 i ! / Outlet t . . . . I                      .       .           .   .        . . . .


                           ..9    Bridge          Bridge pier .,Top of parapet 167.0m OD                                                                     Bridge

                  Sluice~..~               11~                                   Concrete retaining wall                                       1643m[r'----~Bridgep                            ier | l           1' ?           9 9T


                                                                            450mm concrete floor                                      Un d e r d r a i n ; - ~ '.;'..'' ~'I: l "" C. . . . ere apron [i.~Sco ur wall




Fig. 5.21     The Annalong River intake for Belfast Water Supply (engineers: Binnie and Partners).


                            Alternative
                            position of                                                                             Extension wall
                            extension wall                                             .            . . . / / i n t o rock bank
                                                                                 ~ ~                                                               /Offtake channel
                                                                                 Jm                              ~                     Sluice gate /
                                                        L 1. . . . . . .          -l_-.~l.,~r/~,~/j/jjj/lp                   /                J'.,l[Jr1111~111J           Y11111,          r                   "11.        II

                                                            ,--'- .....          f-      b          ~              l     " ~"                                            ..#
                           .q . . . . . . . . .                              !        r/7///,'////H//HP/','/'/////M///////A                                               ~4[.XP.X.~A                                 V/.Z.Z.Z~ t
                                 Desiltinggate~                                                                      ~                   ,~                       [       }          ~i                               ~         u      -._- . .
                        l                  ~./.'..~ \Protective wall""                                                                          I          r             , 1~
                   Projection            /~7"               )carriedabove                                                                       i                      I \
                   into stream         /k~ '/            / flood level                                                                          ~                  --,-t \
                   as required / . ~ " \           /                /7                                                                           Distance as necessary \ ,~ .,
                          I,       /~/2" "~, ,~,/                 /7"                                                                            to obtain overflow       \ uverTIow
                                                                                                                                                                              .    .
                                 ~./)~7 k~
                           ! //,."Y
                                            ~
                                           "Y
                                              Y                /~/"
                                                                /
                                                              ~i.~
                                                                                                                                                 above flood level          side weir
                                                                                                                                                                            downstream
                                '~'                      /a
                       -~~ ~ ':'"     /        downstre/am/.~ cutoff
                                                                 aps-~in

                            "'"    /'"                                                  Cutoff below
               Stream flow
                       - m ~ / ~ / ~ "                                                  weir and around
                                                                                        perimeter of slab

                          Broad crested
                          weir 0.75 m
                          above bed level

Fig. 5.22     Groyne intake for small abstraction on a flashy river (as used in Cyprus).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     . . . . . . . . . . . . .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               600ram          diameter     CI pipe            O.gm   diameter   CI pipe

                                                                   0 , H[on.~".~                                       il            IH./,,.,m~                                                                                                                                                                  H Ill III I!1 -!
                                           4,0ram          band   .....       - ~ i i ~ e t a i n i n ,                                                                          wall                               Surf ....   , hard material                                                              "       ~                "-~             i---'"
               .,v..~ .....                                               [    [ I                      T ~ ~                                                      . . . . . .                                                                                                                                   H I!l ~'~," I!1 I,~:!
                                                                              ~:-ii:                    :: r :; ".::"                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~r
   ~ - - - " ~ -                                                              ~\    i     ~ ~ f ~ ' (                                                                                              Typical section                                                                                600m_.~;(]~4~.;m ~l'i'am;;er~, 6OOmm



                     Protective   fender                                                ;;.             "'~      ~'.            ."                                                                                                                                                                                                              .':


   -...-'--.   "~'                    .        .       .     .                           ..             ..       (.~            "                          "   '   ""   "   ""   " ".''"           ""           "        ,-.,   --       -.    ;"-.-''..-      "-:';.      "~' ..'-"        ".'..-..:~..'i'..~:.l        MmnJmum                i!;
      . . . .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~1 pumping ,eve, ii"
        - "                                ~       ~   I          r..-;'-     ". " " .        '       ,'-:.-~-.ff - ? .   :;:-'"     '-   9   "   " -   " "--- ~                           ~   ,   .    .   -   .    s          ......        -1....-       .......     _.. . . . . . . . . . .         9 .~             ,-x      ~       ,-x   ~ .



                                                                   .                              .                         .                       .                                                                                                                                              4 3m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9                       ~-;'):~:,!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ~...:.;;!,.-..;:.-;-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - f9 .~. _ ~_ _J......:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :.




  Datum




Fig. 5.23               The River Severn intake for Coventry Water Supply. Engineers: Binnie and Partners. (Hetherington and Roseveare, Proc ICE, 1954.)
                                                                                                       5.27 River intakes       193


With all such intakes the problem is how to obtain a self-cleansing offtake which is
effective from high flows to low flows.
   If the designer is fortunate he may be able to position the intake at a point where the
river is consistently deep and constrained between stable banks. An intake of the type
shown in Fig. 5.23 is then possible, usually sited on the outside of a bend in the river.
Problems of avoiding siltation and fish entry have to be dealt with. Usually the intake is
designed for about 1.0 m/s inflow rate, but this is a compromise; it will permit fish to swim
out if they get in, it should keep siltation down to a reasonable amount, and it might avoid
dragging into the intake the various floating and half submerged debris that a river often
carries. In practice none of these things may be prevented entirely and, if bar screens of too
fine an aperture are installed, the situation may be made rather worse by too much
collecting on the screens which have to be cleaned d a i l y - often by hand. A more costly
solution is installation of an inclined heavy duty band screen if the water level is fairly
constant, the perforated lifting plates being of mild steel and equipped with hooks, the
band motive power being sufficient to pull out heavy debris such as bale of hay, or a tree
branch. Economy can be achieved by the band screen only moving when the differential
water head across it due to build up of debris exceeds a pre-set value. High pressure water



                 hA. . . . . . . . ~                         A             Travelling'A' frame                         Lineof
                 fl'oo~'iev"el=='                           ~          /                                               bank I

                    /
                        / 1 1 \           I li   .    l.;              lJ                                 ~     ~"I
                                                                                                                      ./--"
           Mean annual l         ~l~fStoplog&fine                                             . - " ' / " li}]         "Y//~
           Iowflow         I       ~1    screenslot                                    I~ ~            ~_.___
           level +500      I       INI                                        ..~"                       ~-'-~

               " ~ - ~ J/              ! l~i|ll . ~ - "                     ~,450 Submersible I           li~
            2000        ~                        .......                     9    pump

                         ~.":~                       1000
              Bank                      I~!                        .                I.~i~~         ~~'1
              protection                ~..'~~ ~ , ~ ~ ~ : i ~ ~ i                                 ~~i)]
                                         C.I. penstock       Section
                                                       Dimensionsshown-mm




            Coarse ~..
                                                 Ivv=,+10o.
            screen



                                                                                                                        2500

                                                                                                                        1
                                           t<               5000
                                                                             Plan

Fig. 5.24 A river side channel intake for a flow of 600 m3/h.
194 Dams, impounding reservoirs and river intakes


jets wash debris off the band screen into a hopper at the head of the bandscreen, so that
manual labour is reduced.
   A type of intake widely used on Malaysian rivers which carry heavy silt loads after
rainfall, is shown in Fig. 5.24 for abstractions up to 0.5 m3/s. For larger intake quantities
the settlement bays are constructed with hopper bottoms for collection of silt which is
removed at intervals by suction pipes after agitation with air delivered through pipes to the
hoppers.
   Infiltration galleries and bankside collector pipes (described in Section 4.16) are other
means of abstracting water from a river which avoid the need for construction of a weir or
direct intake. Sometimes a piled crib from which submersible pumps are suspended in the
river can be used if the river flow is deep enough; otherwise suction pumps must be used
with their suctions dipping into the water. Care must be taken to ensure pump strainers are
 of large size so that a pump can keep going with a partially blocked strainer, and reverse
flushing of strainers should be possible. A crib intake is relatively cheap, but it may need to
 be of very sturdy construction if there is boat traffic on the river. Floating pontoon intakes
have been used, but usually only for relatively small abstractions. They have the advantage
 of rising and falling with the river level; their disadvantage is the need for secure anchoring
if the river is subject to a high flood flow.



References
    1 Smith, N. A History of Dams. Peter Davies, London 1971
   2. Jaeger C. The Vaiont Rock Slide. Water Power, 17 March 1965, pp. 110-111, and 18
      April 1965, pp. 142-144.
   3. Engineering News Record, 7 Jan. 1926 and 25 Nov. 1926.
   4. McIldowie G. The Construction of the Silent Valley Reservoir. Trans ICE, 239,
      1934-1935, p. 465.
   5. Carlyle W.J. Shek Pik Dam. JIWE, March 1965, p. 571.
   6. Ischy E. and Glossop R. An Introduction to Alluvial Grouting. Proc. ICE, 21 March
      1962, p. 449. See also Geddes W. E., Rocke S. and Scrimgeour J. The Backwater
      Dam. Proc. ICE, 51, March 1972, p. 433.
   7. The Failure of the Bouzey Dam (Abstract of Commission Report). Proc. ICE,
      CXXV, 1896, p. 461.
   8. Engineering News Record, 29 March 1928, p. 517, and 12 April 1928, p. 596.
   9. Jaeger C. The Malpasset Report. Water Power, 15 Feb. 1963, pp. 55-61.
  10. Engineering News Record, 7 August 1924, pp. 213-215.
  11. Floods and Reservoir Safety." An Engineering Guide, 3rd edn. ICE, 1996.
  12. Flood Studies Report. Natural Environmental Research Council, London, 1975.
  13. Flood Estimation Handbook, 5 Volumes. Institute of Hydrology, Wallingford, 1999.
  14. Design of Small Dams, US Bureau of Reclamation, US Govt Printing Office,
      Washington, 1977.
  15. Twort A. C. The Repair of Lluest Wen Dam. JIWES July 1977 p.269
  16. The Breaching of the Oros Dam, North East Brazil. Water & Water Engineering,
      August 1960, p. 351.
  17. Design of Small Dams. US Bureau of Reclamation, US Govt Printing Office,
      Washington, 1977, Section F.
                                                                       References   195

18. Kenn M. J. and Garrod A. D. Cavitation Damage and the Tarbela Tunnel Collapse
    of 1974. Proc. ICE, Feb. 1981, p. 65.
19. Bishop A. W. The Use of the Slip Circle in the Stability Analysis of Slopes.
    Geotechnique, ICE, March 1955, p. 7.
20. Twort A. C. The New Tittesworth Dam. JIWE, March 1964, pp. 125-179.
21. Skempton A. W. and Vaughan P. R. The Failure of Carsington Dam, Geotechnique,
    ICE, March 1993, pp. 151-173 and Dec. 1995, pp. 719-739.
22. Johnston et al. An Engineering Guide to the Safety of Embankment Dams in the United
    Kingdom, Report 171. Building Research Establishment, 1990, new edn 1999.
23. CUR, Manual on the Use of Rock in Hydraulic Engineering, Report 169, Centre for
    Civil Engineering Research and Codes, Balkema (Rotterdam), 1995.
24. Kennard M. F., Owens C. C. and Reader R. A. An Engineering Guide to the Safety of
    Concrete and Masonry Dams in the UK. Report 148, CIRIA 1995.
25. Davis C. V. Handbook of Applied Hydraulics. McGraw-Hill, Basingstoke, 1969.
26. Deacon G. F. The Vyrnwy Works for the Water Supply to Liverpool. ICE Trans,
    CXXVI Pt IV, 1895-1896, pp. 24-125.
27. Mason P. J. The Evolving Dam. Hydro Power & Dams, Issue Five, 1997, pp. 69-73.
28. Cooke J. B. Rockfill and Rockfill Dams. Stan Wilson Memorial Lecture, University
    of Washington, 1990.
29. Vail A.J, The High Island Water Scheme for Hong Kong. Water Power & Dam
    Construction, Jan. 1975, p. 15.
30. Binnie W. J. E. and Gourley H. J. F. The Gorge Dam, JICE, March 1939, p. 174.
31. Charles J. A., Abbiss C.P., Gosschalk E.M. and Hinks J.L. An Engineering Guide to
    Seismic Risk to Dams in UK. ICE 1998.
32. An Application Note to 'An Engineering Guide to Seismic Risk to Dams in UK'. ICE,
    1998.
33. The Reservoirs Act 1975 and Associated Regulations, 1985 and 1986.
34. Fleming G. Design curves for suspended load estimation. Proc. ICE, 43, 1965,
    pp. 1-9.
35. Hydrotechnic Corporation, Report on Resources en Eau de Surface et Possibilities de
    leur Amendagement. Region d'Algerie Orientale, April 1970.
36. Rodda J., Downing R. A and Law F. M. Systematic Hydrology. Newnes-
    Butterworth, Oxford, 1976, Table 6.13.
37. United States Geological Survey, Techniques of Water Resources Investigations of the
    USGS, Book 3, Chapters C1-C3 on fluvial sediments, US Govt. Printing Office,
    Washington 1970.
                                          6
Chem istry, m icrobiology a nd
     biology of water

6.1     Introduction
This chapter is divided into five parts.
  Part I lists alphabetically some of the more usual physical and chemical characteristics
of water and describes their significance. Reference is made to the following standards:
(1) the World Health Organisation Guidelines for Drinking-Water Quality 19931 and
    subsequent editions and amendments;
(2) the European Commission Directive on the quality of water intended for human
    consumption, 1998;2
(3) the Water Supply (Water Quality) Regulations 1989, and subsequent amendments,
    which apply to England and Wales, 3 with similar regulations applying to Scotland and
    Northern Ireland;
(4) the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) National Primary
    Drinking Water Regulations, as specified in the 1996 amendments to the Safe
    Drinking Water Act. 4
Part II looks at the derivations of the aforementioned standards and discusses their
application. It is important to appreciate that the WHO guideline values, which are of
world-wide application, are advisory values. The EC Directive applies only to member
states of the European Community. The Directive sets numerical standards for health
related chemical parameters, along with standards for a number of indicator parameters.
The latter are not health related but are set for monitoring purposes. Member States are
required to adopt the Directive into national law within two years of it coming into force.
Member States are allowed until December 2003 to achieve compliance with most of the
standards specified in the Directive (i.e. 5 years after the Directive came into force), at
which point the predecessor Directive of 19805 will be repealed. The current UK
regulations incorporate the maximum admissible concentrations specified in the 1980
Directive. The standards for some parameters, such as lead, are more stringent and limits
are also specified for a number of parameters not included in the 1980 Directive. These
regulations are currently mandatory upon water undertakers in the UK. New UK
regulations will be implemented, possibly by 1 January 2001, when the 1998 EC Directive
has been transposed into national law. The USEPA regulations set 'maximum
contaminant levels' (MCLs), which are mandatory, and secondary levels (SMCLs) or
maximum contaminant level goals (MCLGs) which are not mandatory. It should be noted
that the unit of measurement and the notation for a particular parameter can vary between
                                                                      6.3 Algal toxins   197


the above standards. The WHO Guidelines and the European standards use a mixture of
mg/l and #g/l, whilst the USEPA standards are mainly in rag/1.
   Part II also looks at the levels of monitoring and analysis required for chemical
parameters.
  Part III looks at the microbiology of water and the most common waterborne diseases;
the requirements for the bacteriological quality of drinking water as set out in the above
standards; and the testing of water for pathogenic organisms.
   Part IV looks at water biology in terms of the significance of macro organisms on water
quality and Part V looks at new areas of concern in respect of drinking water quality.




             Part l Significant chemical and physico-chemical
                             parameters in water
6.2     Acidity
An acid water is one which has a pH value of less than 7.0 (see Section 6.33). The acidity of
many raw waters is due to natural constituents, such as dissolved carbon dioxide or
organic acids derived from peat or soil humus. These are unlikely to lead to pH values
much below 5.5. Some apparently unpolluted moorland waters may have pH values below
4.5 due to 'acid rain' which is formed when atmospheric sulphur dioxide derived from the
burning of fossil fuels combined with water vapour to form dilute sulphuric acid.
   Surface waters can sometimes be contaminated with acidic industrial effluents. Acidic
wastes from disused mines can also provide a significant source of acid contamination to
waters in some parts of the world.
   Whilst a pH value of 7.0 is termed 'neutral', a water with a pH value of 7.0 or above can
still be corrosive depending on the amount of carbonate hardness and free carbon dioxide
present (see Section 6.12). Certain treatment processes, notably coagulation with
aluminium or iron sulphate, can lower the pH of the water and an alkali such as lime
may need to be added to the water to make the final treated water non-corrosive. The
various guidelines and standards specify slightly dissimilar ranges of pH value in drinking
water, but the main criteria are to adjust the pH value to achieve a non-corrosive water in
supply.


6.3     Algal toxins
Algae are discussed in detail in Part IV.
   Blooms of blue-green algae can produce toxins which, if concentrated by reason of the
algae collecting in large masses at the shallow margins of a reservoir, may prove fatal to
fish or to animals drinking at the water's edge. 6 Some algae such as Microcystis,
Osr          and Anabaena produce hepatotoxins, the best studied of which is Microcystin
LR. Other algae, including Oscillatoria and Anabaena, produce neurotoxins. The WHO
Guidelines give a provisional guideline value of 1 Fzg/1 for Microcystin LR.
   Activated carbon has been used successfully to remove Microcystin from raw waters
and ozone has also been shown to be effective at breaking down Microcystin into less toxic
by-products. 7'8
198   Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

6.4     Alkalinity
In a general sense 'alkalinity' is taken to mean the opposite of 'acidity', i.e. as the pH value
increases (see Section 6.33) alkalinity increases. In a more accurate sense, however, the
alkalinity of a water principally comprises the sum of the bicarbonates, carbonates, and
hydroxides of calcium, magnesium, sodium and potassium. Calcium and magnesium
bicarbonates predominate in waters which are associated with chalk or limestone and
comprise the temporary hardness of a water (see Section 6.24). Where the alkalinity is less
than the total hardness, the excess hardness is termed permanent hardness. Conversely
where the alkalinity is greater than the total hardness, the excess alkalinity is usually due to
the presence of sodium bicarbonate which does not affect the hardness of the water.
Because bicarbonate ions can exist at pH values below pH 7.0, a measurable alkalinity is
still obtained with 'acidic' waters down to pH values of 4.5.
   Alkalinity provides a buffering effect on pH which is an important factor in many water
treatment processes. It is also a key factor in determining the corrosive nature of a water.
There is no maximum value for alkalinity in the WHO Guidelines. There is a minimum
standard for alkalinity in a water which has been softened or desalinated in the current
UK regulations.



6.5      Aluminium
Aluminium can occur in detectable amounts in many natural waters as a consequence of
leaching from the sub strata. It is also found in the run-off from newly afforested areas.
However the most usual source of aluminium in public water supplies comes from
incomplete removal during the treatment process where an aluminium salt is used as a
coagulant (see Section 7.21). It should be possible, by taking a holistic approach to
optimising water treatment processes, to keep the residual aluminium in water going into
supply after clarification and filtration to less than 0.05 mg/1 (or 50 #g/l) A1. A percentage
of this aluminium is still likely to settle out in the distribution system and will tend to
accumulate as flocculant material, especially in areas where the flow is low. Inadequate
treatment or deficiencies in process control can result in much higher concentrations of
aluminium in the water leaving the treatment works. This is also likely to deposit as
flocculant material within the distribution system and any disturbance of these sediments,
either through flow reversals or changes in flow, may result in consumer complaints of
'dirty' water. The WHO Guidelines recommend that aluminium concentrations should not
exceed 0.2 mg/1 A1 in the water in supply in order to avoid such complaints. This is the
same level as the current UK standard of 200 #g/1 and also the standard in the EC
Directive, where it is an indicator parameter. Aluminium is likely to remain as a
mandatory parameter in the new UK Regulations. The USEPA sets an advisory SMCL
for aluminium in public water systems of 0.05-0.2 mg/1.
   Although the above limits set for aluminium are based on the aesthetic quality of the
water supplied, concerns have been expressed about its possible association with
neurotoxic effects. It has been established that the aluminium content of water used for
renal dialysis should be no greater than 0.01 mg/1 to avoid neurological problems in
dialysis patients. Water companies in UK have agreed to notify health authorities of
 supplies where this level is exceeded, but such a low level can only be ensured by additional
water treatment at the point of use. There has also been evidence thought to suggest a
                                                                           6.7 Arsenic   199


possible connection between aluminium in drinking water and the incidence of
Alzheimer's disease. This was examined by the UK Department of Health CASW
Committee (CASW - Committee on Medical Aspects of the Contamination of Air, Soil
and Water) but the relationship was not found to be established. Official advice is that
further research is necessary before any change in the use of aluminium compounds in
water treatment could be justified. 9 A connection would appear unlikely in view of the
small contribution of drinking water to the total daily intake of aluminium.


6.6     Ammoniacal compounds
Ammonia is one of the forms of nitrogen found in water (see also Section 6.30). It exists in
water as ammonium hydroxide (NH4OH) or as the ammonium ion (NH~-), depending on
the pH value, and is usually expressed in terms of rag/1 'free' ammonia (or 'free and saline
ammonia'). 'Albuminoid ammonia' relates to the additional fraction of ammonia liberated
from any organic material present in the water by strong chemical oxidation. 'Kjeldahl
nitrogen' is a measure of the total concentration of inorganic and organic nitrogen present
in water.
   Ammoniacal compounds are found in most natural waters; they originate from various
sources, but the most important is decomposing plant and animal matter. Increased levels
of free ammonia in surface waters may be an indicator of recent pollution by either sewage
or industrial effluent; the ammonia level in a typical UK sewage effluent being of the order
of 50 rag/1 N. However some deep borehole waters which are of excellent organic quality
may also contain high levels of ammonia as a result of the biological reduction of nitrates.
The source of any substantial amount of ammonia in a raw water should always be
investigated, especially if it is associated with excessive bacterial pollution.
   The level of free ammonia in a raw water is of importance in determining the chlorine
dose required for disinfection. Chlorine first combines with any ammonia present in the
water to form chloramines. Free chlorine, which is a more effective disinfectant than
chloramine, can only be formed on completion of this reaction (see Section 9.9). Ammonia
removal may have to be considered if the concentration is sufficiently high to create a large
chlorine demand (see Section 8.27).
  The WHO considers that there is no health risk associated with the levels of ammonia
found in drinking water and suggests a maximum level of 1.5 mg/1 ammonia to avoid taste
and odour problems. The current UK standard for ammonia in drinking water is 0.5 mg/1
as NH4, which is the same concentration in the EC Directive where ammonia is an
indicator parameter.


6.7     Arsenic
Arsenic is toxic to humans and, if detected in water, the origins should always be
investigated. It is unusual to find significant levels of arsenic in UK waters, but it is a
natural water contaminant in many parts of the world particularly in areas of geothermal
activity. Arsenic can also be found in surface runoff waters from areas where there are
certain types of metalliferous ore or mining waste tips. Its presence may also be the result
of pollution from weedkillers and pesticides containing arsenic.
  High levels of arsenic in the drinking water supplies in parts of Bangladesh have recently
caused significant health problems. The WHO has set a provisional guideline value for
200    Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

arsenic of 0.01 mg/1. The current UK standard is 50 #g/1 which is the same as the USEPA
interim standard for arsenic of 0.05 mg/1 as a maximum contaminant level. The US
standard will be included in a final National Primary Drinking Water Regulation to be
finalised by 1 January 2001. The EC Directive sets a much lower maximum value of
10 #g/1 and a number of source waters in Europe are likely to require treatment to achieve
this level.



6.8      Asbestos
The widespread use of asbestos cement pipes for conveyance of water has raised the
question whether the resulting fibres found in water are a danger to health. The Water
Research Centre (WRc) found that some drinking waters in the UK can contain up to
1 million asbestos fibres per litre, over 95% of which are less than 2 microns in length, l~
The CASW Committee (see Section 6.5) reported in 1986 that there was a substantial body
of evidence that asbestos, as found in drinking water, did not represent a hazard to
health. 9 The WHO likewise considers that the concentrations of asbestos normally found
in drinking water are not hazardous to health. Asbestos is not included as a parameter in
the EC Directive and there is no UK standard. The USEPA sets a MCL of 7 million
asbestos fibres of more than 10 #m in length per litre.



6.9      Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD)
The BOD test gives an indication of the oxygen required to degrade biochemically any
organic matter in a water, as well as the oxygen needed to oxidise inorganic materials, such
as sulphides. The test provides an empirical comparison of the relative oxygen
requirements of surface waters, wastewaters, and effluents. For example, if a sewage
effluent of high BOD is discharged into a stream, the oxygen required by biological
organisms to break down the organic matter in the effluent is taken from the overall
oxygen content of the receiving water. This depletion could potentially destroy fish and
plant life.
   The UK Royal Commission on Sewage Disposal in 1915 observed that unpolluted
rivers rarely had BOD values of more than 2 mg/1 and could accept added pollution up to
a total BOD value of 4 rag/1 with no apparent detriment. This gave rise to the maximum
permissible BOD value of 20 mg/1 in a sewage effluent entering a watercourse, with an 8:1
dilution with freshwater.



6.10     Bromide and iodide
Seawater contains 50-60 mg/1 bromide so the presence of bromide in well or borehole
sources near the coast could be evidence of seawater intrusion. There is no standard for
bromide in drinking water; however its presence may lead to the formation of bromate as a
disinfection by-product during water treatment (see Section 6.21).
   Many natural waters contain trace amounts of iodide, usually at levels of less than
10 #g/l, although higher concentrations are found in brines and brackish water. The levels
found in drinking water are unlikely to contribute significantly to dietary requirements.
                                                                         6.13 Chloride   201


6.11    Calcium
Calcium is found in most waters, the level depending on the type of rock through which
the water has passed. It is usually present as calcium carbonate or bicarbonate, especially
in waters that are associated with chalk or limestone, and as calcium sulphate. Calcium
chloride and nitrate may also be found in waters of higher salinity. Calcium bicarbonate
forms temporary hardness; the sulphates, chlorides and nitrates forming permanent
hardness (see Section 6.24).
   Calcium is an essential part of human diet, but the nutritional value from water is likely
to be minimal when compared to the intake from food. There is no health objection to a
high calcium content in a water; the main limitations are on the grounds of excessive scale
formation.


6.12    Carbon dioxide
Free carbon dioxide in a water (as distinct from that existing as carbonate and
                . .




bicarbonate) depends on the alkalinity and pH value of the water. It is of much
importance regarding the corrosive properties of a water (see Section 8.40).
  Surface waters usually contain less than 10 mg/1 free CO2, but some groundwaters from
deep boreholes may contain more than 100 mg/1. A simple means of reducing free CO2 in
a water is by cascade aeration (see Section 8.18).


6.13    Chloride
Chlorides are present in nearly all waters, mostly in combination with sodium and to a
lesser extent with potassium, calcium and magnesium. They are one of the most stable
components in water, being unaffected by most physicochemical or biological processes.
Chlorides are derived from a number of sources including natural mineral deposits;
seawater intrusion or airborne sea spray; agricultural or irrigation discharges; urban
runoff due to the use of de-icing salts; or from sewage and industrial effluents.
   Most rivers and lakes have chloride concentrations of less than 50 mg/1 C1 and any
marked increase may be indicative of sewage pollution or, if the increase is seasonal, urban
runoff. The chloride content of a sewage effluent under dry weather flow could increase
the chloride content of the receiving water by as much as 70 mg/1.
   The main problems caused by excessive chlorides in water relate to corrosion and taste.
High concentrations enhance the corrosion rate of iron, steel, and plumbing metals. A
sensitive palate can detect chlorides in drinking water at as low a level as 150 mg/1 and
concentrations above 250 mg/1 can impart a distinctly salty taste (see Section 6.41).
However waters containing more than 600 mg/1 of chloride are drunk in some arid or
semi-arid places where there is no alternative supply.
   Conventional water treatment processes do not remove chlorides. If the chloride content
of a water has to be reduced then some form of desalination has to be applied (see Section
8.43 et seq.). The W H O guide level for chloride of 250 mg/1 is based on taste grounds and
corrosion; a similar advisory level has been set by the USEPA. This is the same level
required by the EC Directive, as an indicator parameter, with the caveat that the water
should not be aggressive. The current U K Regulations set a standard of 400 mg/1 C1,
based on an annual average.
202    Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water


6.14     Chlorinated solvents
The term chlorinated solvent covers a wide range of volatile organic chemicals used as
solvents, metal cleaners, paint thinners, dry cleaning fluids, etc. They tend to be found as
micro contaminants in groundwater sources that have been subjected to industrial
pollution and can remain long after the original source of pollution has been removed.
   The three most commonly detected chlorinated solvents in drinking water are
tetrachloromethane (or carbon tetrachloride); trichloroethene (TCE); and tetrachloro-
ethene (PCE). All three are potential carcinogens and the latter two compounds may
degrade in anaerobic groundwaters to produce more toxic substances such as vinyl
chloride. There is some variation in the recommended standards, especially for TCE and
PCE (see Table 6.1 (C)).


6.15     Chlorine residual
Chlorine remains the principal biocide and disinfectant used in water treatment in most
countries (see Chapter 9). It is applied as a gas at major treatment works, or via powders,
crystals or solutions containing chlorine at smaller works or at sites where the procure-
ment of chlorine gas presents difficulties. The effectiveness of chlorine as a disinfectant
arises from its high chemical reactivity. However it is recognised that the use of chlorine
for disinfection can result in the formation of a wide range of undesirable chlorinated
organic compounds, known collectively as chlorination by-products (see Section 6.21).
Although found at very low concentrations, some of these compounds might be
potentially hazardous to health; others produce objectionable tastes and odours.
Notwithstanding these problems, which can be minimised by appropriate means (see
Section 9.7), the use of chlorine is essential for ensuring a water is bacteriologically safe to
drink unless other reliable means of disinfection (e.g. boiling) can be used.
   There is no evidence that the levels of chlorine residual normally found in drinking
water are harmful to health. Most consumers become familiar with the normal levels of
chlorine residual in their local water supply. However sudden increases in chlorine residual
are likely to be noticed and result in complaints, particularly from consumers with
sensitive palates. Taste and odour complaints can also arise from the reaction of chlorine
with other trace substances present in the water (see Section 9.11).
   The WHO has set a guideline value of 5 rag/1 free chlorine in drinking water, a level that
most consumers would find objectionable on taste grounds. The WHO also recommends
that for effective disinfection, there should be a free chlorine residual of 0.5 mg/1 after 30
minutes contact time at a pH of <8.0. There is no maximum value for residual chlorine at
the consumer's tap specified in the EC Directive or in the current UK Regulations; the UK
Regulations merely require that all water leaving a water treatment works is disinfected. In
the USA the Stage 1 Disinfectants/Disinfection By-products Rule, promulgated in
December 1998, sets a maximum level of 4 mg/1 a s C12 as a running annual arithmetic
average of monthly averages for either residual chlorine or residual chloramines.


6.16     Colour
The colour of a water is usually expressed in Hazen units, which are the same as TCU (true
colour units) or rag/1 on the platinum-cobalt (Pt-Co) scale. True colour can only be
                                                               6.18 Corrosive quality   203


determined after filtration, usually through a 0.45 micron filter, as a water often appears
coloured because of material in suspension. The colour in unpolluted surface waters is
caused by the presence of humic and fulvic acids which are derived from peat and soil
humus. In some waters the brown colour is enhanced by the presence of iron and
manganese. Waters subject to industrial pollution may also contain a wide variety of
coloured materials.
  The level at which colour becomes unacceptable depends largely upon consumer
perception. The W H O Guidelines give a guide level of 15 TCU, above which the colour
would be noticeable in a glass of water by most people. The USEPA advisory limit is the
same. The current U K Regulations set a maximum value for colour of 20 mg/1 Pt-Co
scale. Colour is an indicator parameter in the EC Directive but with no numerical value.
The level merely has to be acceptable to consumers and show no abnormal change.


6.17    Copper
Copper is rarely found in unpolluted waters, although trace amounts can sometimes found
in very soft, acid moorland waters. The more usual source of copper in drinking water is
the corrosion of copper and copper-containing alloys used in domestic plumbing systems.
Water containing as little as 1 mg/1 of copper can cause green stains on sanitary fittings,
and even much lower concentrations can cause accelerated corrosion of other metals in the
same system. 1~ It is therefore inadvisable to use galvanised steel piping or storage tanks
downstream of copper piping.
   Copper is an essential element in the human diet, but acute gastric irritation can be
caused in some individuals at concentrations above 3 mg/1. Excessive concentrations of
copper can also impart an unpleasant and astringent taste to the water. This has resulted
in two standards. One is on health grounds (the W H O provisional guideline value of
2 mg/1; the U K maximum concentration of 3000 #g/1 and the USEPA maximum guide
level of 1.3 mg/1). The other is set at a lower value to avoid problems of staining, etc.
(WHO and USEPA at 1 mg/1). The EC Directive specifies a maximum value of 2.0 mg/1 as
sampled at the consumer's tap, but taken so as to be representative of a weekly average
value ingested by the consumer.


6.18    Corrosive quality
There is no definition of the corrosive or aggressive quality of a water because of the many
factors that determine whether or not corrosion will take place. These relate to the water
itself and the materials with which it comes into contact. Nevertheless three specific
characteristics can result in a water being corrosive or aggressive. These are:
9   a low pH value, i.e. acidity;
9   a high free carbon dioxide (C02) content; and
9   an absence or low amount of alkalinity.
Waters which are frequently corrosive include soft moorland waters; shallow well waters
of low pH with little temporary hardness but a lot of permanent hardness; water from
iron-bearing formations; chalk and limestone waters having a high CO2 content; waters
from greensands and coal measures; and waters having a high chloride content.
Desalinated water is also very corrosive unless suitably treated. The aggressiveness of a
204    Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

water can be tested by putting the water in contact with powdered chalk or marble for a
defined period. The initial and final values for pH and alkalinity will disclose whether the
water will readily dissolve the calcium carbonate, or whether Calcium carbonate has been
deposited (see Section 8.40). If the former, the water is likely to be corrosive to iron and
steel as well as cement. If the latter, a protective layer is likely to form on the interior of a
metal pipe.
   Another aspect of corrosion potential which should always be checked is whether a
water is plumbosolvent or cuprosolvent, i.e. whether it is aggressive to lead or copper (see
Section 6.27). Such waters may require pH and alkalinity adjustment as well as the
addition of orthophosphate or silicate, either individually, or in various combinations, to
reduce the corrosion potential.


6.19     Cyanide
Cyanide and cyanide complexes are only found in waters polluted by effluents from
industrial or mining processes involving use of cyanide. Most cyanides are biodegradable
and can be removed by chemical treatment before any effluent is discharged into a
receiving water. Chlorination to a free chlorine residual under neutral or alkaline
conditions effectively decomposes any remaining cyanide present in a raw water.
   The WHO guideline value for cyanide is 0.07 mg/1, whereas the USEPA MCL is set at
0.2 mg/1. The EC and current UK standards are lower at 50 #g/1.


6.20     Detergents
There are several substances that can cause foaming in water, the largest group being
synthetic detergents or surfactants. In recent years the increased use of biodegradable
detergents, which can be removed by normal sewage purification processes, has led to a
reduction in the residual detergent discharged in sewage effluent. The main limitation on
detergents is to prevent foaming in drinking water, although some components of anionic
surfactants are toxic to aquatic life. Methylene blue active substances (MBAS) relate to the
more common anionic surfactants found in detergents, which react with methylene blue.
Many surface waters downstream of urban areas contain detergent.
  The WHO does not set a limit for detergent. The parameter is not included in the EC
Directive but the current UK standard is 200 #g/1 for surfactants, measured as lauryl
sulphates. The USEPA sets a SMCL of 0.5 mg/1 for 'foaming agents'.


6.21 Disinfection by-products
Chemical oxidants, such as chlorine and ozone, are traditionally used as disinfectants to
control pathogenic organisms present in raw waters (see Chapter 9). They are also used to
assist in the oxidation of iron and manganese and to breakdown taste and odour forming
compounds. Ozone is used extensively to breakdown pesticides. These side reactions with
organic and inorganic constituents present in a raw water can give rise to low
concentrations of chemicals, collectively known as disinfection by-products or DBPs.
There is concern that some DBPs in water comprise minute quantities of chemicals which,
in dosages vastly greater, would be potentially carcinogenic (see Sections 6.31 and 6.48).
Hence keeping DBPs as low as possible in considered advisable to reduce any risk their
                                                         6.21 Disinfection by-products    205


long-term ingestion might pose to health. Other DBPs can cause objectionable tastes and
odours. The level of DBP formation can be reduced by optimising the treatment processes
prior to the final disinfection stage. However the WHO has emphasised that it is vital that
the efficacy of the disinfection process is never compromised in order to meet the
guidelines for DBPs. In 1991 there was a major cholera epidemic in Peru after water
officials were put under pressure to reduce chlorination because of a perceived
hypothetical cancer risk from chlorination by-products.
  The most common DBPs and their standards, where applicable, are given below.

Bromate
Bromate and other brominated DBPs are formed by the oxidation of any bromide ion
present in the water with ozone. Traces of bromide may be present in some raw waters (see
Section 6.10); it is also found in commercially available sodium hypochlorite and can be
present in the sodium hypochlorite produced on site by the electrolytic generation of
chlorine from brine (see Section 9.15). The rate of bromate formation depends on the
amount of natural organic matter present in the water, the alkalinity, and the ozone dose
applied. 12 The WHO has set a provisional guide value for bromate of 25 #g/l, which is
mirrored in the EC Directive as a maximum value in the water at consumers' taps. A more
stringent standard of 10 #g/1 has to be met by December 2008 and, where possible,
Member States are expected to strive for a lower value without compromising disinfection.
The USEPA has a proposed MCL of 0.010 mg/1.


Chloral hydrate
Chloral hydrate, or trichloroacetaldehyde, can be formed during chlorination when the
necessary organic precursors are present. The WHO provisional guideline value is 10 #g/l,
with a proposed USEPA MCL of 0.04 rag/1.

Chlorate and chlorite
Although not strictly DBPs, chlorate and chlorite can be found in water treated with
chlorine dioxide (see Section 9.17). Chlorate, like bromate, may also be present in
commercially available sodium hypochlorite and in sodium hypochlorite produced on site
by the electrolytic generation of chlorine from brine. The WHO provisional guideline
value is 200 #g/1 for chlorite, which is much lower than the USEPA MCL of 0.8 mg/1
proposed under the Stage 1 Disinfectants/Disinfection By-products Rule. The UK
Regulations stipulate a combined concentration of chlorine dioxide, chlorite and chlorate
of less than 0.5 mg/1 as chlorine dioxide for water treated with chlorine dioxide as it leaves
the treatment works. In the case of electrolytically produced sodium hypochlorite, the
concentration of chlorate must not exceed 0.7 mg/1 (as chlorate) in the treated water.

Chloroacetic acids
Monochloro-, dichloro- and trichloro-acetic acids can be formed during chlorination
when the necessary organic precursors are present. The WHO provisional guideline values
for dichloro- and trichloro-acetic acids are 50 and 100 #g/l, respectively. The USEPA
standard of 0.060 mg/1 for total haloacetic acids came into effect under the Stage 1
206    Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

Disinfectants/Disinfection By-products Rule, with compliance for all public water systems
by December 2003.
  Trichloroacetic acid can be used as a herbicide and has been found, in this context, in
detectable concentrations in some raw waters.

Chlorophenols
Chlorophenols can be formed from the chlorination of trace levels of phenolic compounds
present in the raw water or as degradation products from the breakdown of phenoxy acid
herbicides. They have very low organoleptic thresholds and, if present, are immediately
noticed by consumers as an antiseptic taste. The lowest reported taste threshold for 2,4,6-
trichlorophenol is 2 #g/1. The WHO guideline value for 2,4,6-trichlorophenol of 200 #g/1
is based on a lifetime cancer risk.

Trihalomethanes (THMs)
Trihalomethanes can be formed when raw waters containing naturally occurring organic
compounds, such as humic and fulvic acids, are chlorinated. They are also formed by the
reaction of chlorine with some algal derivatives (see Section 9.7). They are best controlled
by removing as much of the organic precursors as possible before chlorine is applied to the
water. Chloroform (or trichloromethane), bromodichloromethane, dibromochloro-
methane and bromoform (or tribromomethane) are the most important members of the
group in terms of monitoring for DBPs. The detection of THMs in the water at
consumers' taps is indicative of presence of other chlorinated by-products.
  The WHO has set guideline values of 200 #g/1 for chloroform, 100 #g/1 respectively for
dibromochloromethane and bromoform and 60 #g/1 for bromodichloromethane. The
Guidelines also specify that the sum of the ratio of the concentration of each to its
respective guideline value should not exceed one. The EC Directive sets a maximum value
of 100 #g/1 for the sum of detected concentrations of trichloromethane, bromodichloro-
methane, dibromochloromethane and tribromomethane, with the caveat that a lower
value should be aimed for without compromising disinfection. The current UK
Regulations require the three monthly average total concentration of the same four
THMs not to exceed 100 #g/1. The USEPA standard of 0.080 mg/1 for total THMs came
into effect under the Stage 1 Disinfectants/Disinfection By-products Rule. Compliance,
which has to be achieved by all public water systems by December 2003, is based on a
running annual average of four quarterly samples.

Nitrites (see also Section 6.30)
Nitrites can be formed as a DBP where ultra-violet radiation is used to disinfect waters
containing moderate to high concentrations of nitrate (see Section 9.24). Undesirable
levels of nitrite can also be formed at the end of long and complex distribution systems
where disinfection by chloramination is practised (see Section 9.8).


6.22     Electrical conductivity and dissolved solids
Conductivity is a measure of the ability of a solution to carry electrical current. As this
ability is dependent upon the presence of ions in solution, the measurement of conductivity
provides an indication of the total dissolved solids, or salts, in a water. For most waters a
                                                                         6.24 Hardness    207


factor in the range 0.55-0.70 multiplied by the conductivity gives a close approximation to
the dissolved solids in mg/1. The factor may be lower than 0.55 for waters containing free
acid, and greater than 0.70 for highly saline waters. Conductivity is temperature dependent
and a reference temperature (usually 20 or 25~ is used when expressing the result. One of
the advantages of conductivity determination is that it can be easily measured in the field
or used for continuous monitoring of a supply.
   The current UK Regulations have a maximum value of 1500 #S/cm at 20~ based on
an annual average. Conductivity is an indicator parameter in the EC Directive with a
standard of 2500 #S/cm at 20~ and a caveat that the water must not be aggressive. There
is no WHO guideline or USEPA standard for conductivity. Instead the WHO has set a
guideline level of 1000 mg/1 for total dissolved solids on the basis of acceptability to
consumers. This is higher than the USEPA advisory SMCL of 500 mg/1.
   High levels of dissolved solids can result in taste complaints as well as causing excessive
scaling to domestic and industrial water systems. Water with low dissolved solids is
desirable for many industrial processes but may be unacceptable to consumers, again on
taste grounds, and also be corrosive to domestic plumbing.


6.23    Fluoride
Some waters used for drinking water supplies in the UK naturally contain several mg/1 of
fluoride. These are mainly deep well waters from chalk or limestone drawn through
overlying clay formations, particularly the London Tertiaries and Oxford clays, where
concentrations of 2.0-5.0 mg/1 of fluoride may be experienced. In other parts of the world
much higher concentrations occasionally occur, particularly in areas associated with
fluoride-containing minerals. Specialised treatment has to be used to remove excess
fluoride from a water, but it is costly to operate (see Section 8.15). Blending is always the
preferred option provided there is sufficient low fluoride water available.
   Low levels of fluoride may be added to public supplies in the UK, 13 the USA and
elsewhere by decision of the relevant health authority as an effective means of reducing
dental caries. The greatest reduction of dental decay occurs if fluoridated water is drunk in
childhood during the period of tooth formation. Fluoride levels have to be closely con-
trolled as excessive amounts can lead to fluorosis, with resultant mottling of the teeth and
in extreme cases even skeletal damage. The addition of fluoride to public water supply is a
principle which many people do not accept. Also other developments in dental care have
greatly reduced the incidence of dental decay in UK.
   The maximum fluoride concentration has to be related to climatic conditions and the
amount of water likely to be consumed. The WHO guideline value is 1.5 mg/1, which is
higher than the 1.0 mg/1 generally adopted for fluoridated water supplies. The current UK
standard is the same at 1.5 mg/1, as is the EC Directive maximum value. The USEPA
MCL is appreciably higher at 4 mg/1.


6.24    Hardness
The term 'hardness' comes from the fact that a typical hard water reacts with ordinary
soap to form a curd or scum. Some hardness is also precipitated by boiling and forms the
scale found inside kettles and utensils. The precipitate formed by heating is the temporary,
or carbonate, hardness and consists of the bicarbonates of calcium and magnesium.
208   Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

Permanent, or non-carbonate, hardness (which is not precipitated by heating) is due to
other salts of calcium and magnesium present in the water, usually in lesser quantities than
the bicarbonates. Hardness, like alkalinity (see Section 6.4), is usually expressed in mg/1 as
CaCO3 although other notations, such as French or German degrees, may be found in
association with domestic appliances such as dishwashers.
  The descriptive terms commonly applied are as follows:

               Hardness description                   Hardness as CaCO3 mg/1
               Soft                                     0-50
               Moderately soft                         50-100
               Slightly hard                          100-150
               Moderately hard                        150-200
               Hard                                   Over 200
               Very hard                              Over 300

  The problems caused by excessive hardness are mainly related to scale formation in
boilers and hot water systems. Consumers in hard water areas also complain of scale
deposition on kitchen utensils and increased soap usage, with associated scum formation.
Conversely, waters containing less than 30-50 mg/1 total hardness tend to be corrosive and
may need additional treatment to reduce the risk of plumbo- and cupro-solvency (see
Section 6.27). Desalinated water has virtually zero hardness and is highly corrosive,
requiring treatment to render it non-aggressive to metallic plumbing materials.
  A statistical inverse relationship between the hardness of a water and the incidence of
cardiovascular disease has been found. The relationship is non-linear, being most evident
when the water is very soft. Many other characteristics vary with the hardness of a water,
and it is not clear whether the relationship observed might be due to a protective factor in
hard water or a harmful factor in soft water. However on the advice of the Department of
Health, few UK water undertakings continue to soften public supplies. 14
  The WHO Guidelines suggest a maximum desirable concentration for total hardness of
500 mg/1 as CaCO3, based on aesthetic grounds. The current UK Regulations do not set
an upper limit for hardness but a lower limit of 60 mg/1 Ca (equivalent to 150 mg/1 as
CaCO3) for supplies which have been softened or demineralised.


6.25 Hydrocarbons
Hydrocarbons include petroleum, mineral oils, coal and coal tar products, and many of
their derivatives such as benzene, styrene, etc. produced by the petro-chemical industry for
industrial processes. In oil producing parts of the world, background concentrations of
hydrocarbons may be present in surface and groundwaters from natural sources. However
their presence is more usually the result of pollution.
   On very rare occasions, traces of benzene and other solvents have been reported in
domestic water supplies. This has usually occurred where there has been localised
permeation of plastic water pipes from contaminated ground conditions or other external
sources of hydrocarbons such as petroleum spillages.
   The current UK standard is 10 #g/1 for dissolved and emulsified hydrocarbons. The EC
Directive, the WHO Guidelines and the USEPA have standards for benzene, although at
                                                                            6.27 Lead    209


varying levels of concentration (see Table 6.1(C)). The WHO Guidelines and the USEPA
standards also specify values for other hydrocarbons.


6.26    Iron
Iron is found in most natural waters and can be present in several forms, namely in true
solution; as a colloid or in suspension as visible particles; or as a complex with other
mineral or organic substances. Iron in surface waters is usually in the ferric (Fe 3+) form,
but the more soluble ferrous (Fe 2 +) form is likely to be found in deoxygenated conditions
that may occur in some groundwaters or in the bottom waters of lakes and reservoirs. On
exposure to air, such waters rapidly become discoloured as the iron oxidises to the ferric
form and precipitates out. Iron linings and iron rising mains and pumps can be readily
corroded in boreholes with aggressive waters, especially in borings pumped for only short
periods daily.
   Iron salts are extensively used as coagulants in water treatment (see Section 7.23). With
good process control, it should be possible to keep the residual concentration of iron in the
water entering supply to less than 0.05 mg/1. However incomplete removal during
treatment can lead over a period of time to significant deposits of iron in the associated
distribution system. Corrosion products from unlined cast iron mains also contribute to
the build up of ferruginous material in a distribution system. Regular flushing, providing it
is adequately controlled, can help to control this build up of deposits which otherwise
gives rise to discoloured water problems when disturbed. The deposits can also contribute
to the growth of iron bacteria, which in turn can cause further water quality deterioration
by producing slimes or objectionable odours.
   Iron is as essential element in the human diet. The concentrations usually found in
drinking water are not harmful but iron can impart a bitter taste when present above
1 mg/1. At lower concentrations it may cause 'dirty' water problems, with consumers
rejecting the water on the grounds of appearance. It can also cause brown stains on
laundry and plumbing fixtures. The WHO guideline value is 0.3 mg/1 to avoid
discolouration and staining, and the USEPA SMCL is the same. Iron is an indicator
parameter in the EC Directive, with a value of 200 #g/1. This is the same as the standard in
the current U K Regulations. Iron is likely to remain as a mandatory standard in the new
U K Regulations because of the associations with discoloured water.


6.27    Lead
Lead is a cumulative poison and the hazards of exposure to lead in the environment have
been well documented over a number of years. Recently there has been growing concern
about the possibility that quite low levels of exposure can affect learning ability and
behavioural problems in children. With the decrease in levels of lead in atmospheric
emissions and also the risk of exposure from lead in paint, lead in drinking water is now
considered to be the main source of controllable exposure.
  Lead is rarely found in detectable concentrations in most natural waters except in areas
where soft acidic waters come into contact with galena or other lead ores. The main source
of lead in drinking water is the dissolution of lead service pipes and internal domestic
plumbing which may still present in older properties in the U K and elsewhere in the world.
Although plumbosolvency tends to be associated with soft, acidic waters from upland and
210 Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

moorland catchments, it can also occur in hard water areas, especially if the hardness is
mainly non-carbonate. Thus the concentrations of lead in drinking water should always be
monitored closely in areas where lead pipes are known to be in use.
   Unacceptable levels of lead have also been found to occur with some new unplasticised
PVC pipes, where lead compounds used as stabilisers in the pipe manufacture are leached
out. The use of solder with a high lead content for copper pipe joints can also give rise to
unacceptable levels of lead at the consumer's tap.
   The WHO guideline for lead is 0.01 rag/l, based on a Provisional Tolerable Weekly
Intake for children and expressed as an average value. The current UK standard is 50 #g/1
in the water at the time of supply (i.e. the first sample taken from a consumer's tap,
without flushing). The UK Regulations place a responsibility on the water undertaker to
reduce lead concentrations at consumers' taps where there is a risk of the standard being
exceeded. In addition, water undertakers are required to replace their part of a lead service
pipe, in areas at risk, if the householder has replaced or is about to replace his or her part
of the lead service pipe.
   The EC Directive mirrors the WHO guideline with a lead standard of 10 #g/1 maximum
value based on a weekly average value ingested by consumers. Compliance with this
standard is being phased in over a 15-year period (i.e. by the end of December 2013), with
a requirement to meet an interim standard of 25 #g/1 after 5 years (i.e. by the end of 2003).
Member States are also required to take appropriate measures to reduce the concentration
of lead in water intended for human consumption. The USEPA introduced the Lead and
Copper Rule in 1991 which sets a zero MCLG for lead and an action level of 0.015 rag/l,
based on the concentration of lead in more than 10% of tap water samples collected
during any monitoring period. If this level is exceeded, treatment has to be installed to
reduce plumbosolvency and, if treatment proves to be ineffective, the lead service pipes
have to be replaced.
   Treatment for plumbosolvency (see Section 8.14) by stabilising the final water pH value
and/or orthophosphate dosing has been shown to be very effective in many parts of the
UK and the USA. Since 1990 there has been a gradual reduction in the number of samples
in England and Wales failing to meet the 50 #g/1 standard as the longer term benefits of
the treatment are realised. 15 Furthermore the percentage of samples with lead con-
centrations of less than 10 #g/1 has increased from 81% of the annual number of samples
taken in 1990 to nearly 84% in 1996. However it is recognised that in some areas the
failures are due to particulate lead, which sloughs off the interior of the pipe. In such
situations the only viable options are pipe replacement or, if the pipe is still structurally
 sound, lining with a thin plastic liner.




6.28     Magnesium
Magnesium is one of the earth's most common elements and forms highly soluble salts
which contribute both carbonate and non-carbonate hardness to a water, usually at lesser
concentration than the calcium component. Excessive concentrations of magnesium are
undesirable in domestic water because of problems of scale formation. Magnesium also
has a cathartic and diuretic effect, especially when associated with high levels of sulphate.
                                                               6.30 Nitrate and nitrite   211


6.29     Manganese
Manganese can be found in detectable concentrations in both surface and groundwaters.
The concentration of manganese in solution rarely exceeds 1.0 mg/1 in a well aerated
surface water, but much higher concentrations can occur in groundwaters subject to
anaerobic conditions. Manganese can re-dissolve from the bottom sediments in
impounding reservoirs if the bottom water becomes deoxygenated. This leads to an
increase in the overall manganese content of the water when the reservoir 'turns over'.
   Large concentrations of manganese are toxic, but treatment is required on grounds of
taste and aesthetic quality long before such levels would be reached. Manganese is
aesthetically undesirable in drinking water, even in small quantities, as it can precipitate
from water in the presence of oxygen or after chlorination, coating the interior of
distribution mains with a black slime. These slimes occasionally slough off, giving rise to
justifiable consumer complaints. The tolerable concentrations of manganese in a
distribution system are generally lower than those for iron for although deposition of
manganese is slow, it is continuous. Thus the onset of serious trouble may not become
apparent for some 10-15 years after putting a manganese rich supply into service.
   The WHO has set a provisional guideline value for manganese of 0.5 mg/1 on health
grounds but recommends a much lower level of 0.1 mg/1 on the basis of staining laundry
and sanitary ware. Manganese is an indicator parameter in the EC Directive, with a value
of 50 #g/1. This reflects the current UK standard, which is likely to remain as a mandatory
standard under the new Regulations. The USEPA has a SMCL at the same concentration
but expressed as 0.05 mg/1



6.30     Nitrate and nitrite
Nitrite is an intermediate oxidation state of nitrogen in the biochemical oxidation of
ammonia to nitrate. It can also be formed by the reduction of nitrates under conditions
where there is a deficit of oxygen. Surface waters, unless badly polluted with sewage
effluent, seldom contain more than 0.1 mg/1 nitrite as N. Thus the presence of nitrites in
surface waters in conjunction with high ammonia levels indicates pollution from sewage or
sewage effluent. The presence of nitrites in groundwater may be a sign of sewage pollution.
On the other hand it may have no hygienic significance as nitrates in good quality
groundwaters can be reduced to nitrite under anaerobic conditions, especially in areas of
ferruginous sands. New brickwork in wells is known to have a similar effect.
   Nitrate is the final stage of oxidation of ammonia and the mineralisation of nitrogen
from organic matter. Most of this oxidation in soil and water is achieved by nitrifying
bacteria and can only occur in a well oxygenated environment. The same bacteria are also
active in percolating filters at sewage treatment works, resulting in large amounts of
nitrate being discharged in sewage effluents from such works.
   The use of nitrogenous fertilisers on the land can give rise to increased nitrate con-
centrations in both surface and underground waters. Nitrate levels in surface waters often
show marked seasonal fluctuations, with higher concentrations occurring in winter when
runoff increases due to winter rains at a time of reduced biological activity. During
summer the nitrate levels are likely to be reduced by biochemical mechanisms and by algal
assimilation in reservoirs. Bacterial denitrification and anaerobic reduction to nitrogen at
the mud interface can, in addition, substantially reduce the nitrate levels in reservoirs. UK
212   Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

and EC measures to control farming practices liable to cause increased nitrates in surface
and groundwaters are described in Section 2.6. By 1995/1996, 32 Nitrate Sensitive Areas
had been introduced in the England and Wales and these measures are expected to reduce
nitrate levels in the medium term in limestone and sandstone aquifers. The 68 Nitrate
Vulnerable Zones, where there will be mandatory restrictions on the use of organic
manures and inorganic fertilisers, become compulsory at some time before the end of 1999.
   Waters containing high nitrate concentrations are thought to be potentially harmful to
infants. At the neutral pH of the infant stomach, nitrate can undergo bacterial reduction to
nitrite, which is then absorbed into the bloodstream and converts the oxygen-carrying
haemoglobin into methaemoglobin. Whilst the methaemoglobin itself is not toxic, the effects
of reduced oxygen-carrying capacity in the blood can obviously be serious, especially for
infants having a high fluid intake relative to body weight. However it has become apparent
that methaemoglobinaemia is a problem associated with rural shallow wells subject to
microbial contamination, rather than public water supplies. There are many examples of
public water supplies with relatively high nitrate levels in Europe and North America where
no problems with methaemoglobinaemia have been reported. In 1997, an ecological
epidemiological study carried out by Leeds University indicated that there was a small but
statistically significant correlation between the incidence of childhood diabetes and nitrate in
drinking water. The study was restricted to a very small geographical area and the
correlation could have arisen by chance. A follow up study, commissioned by the
Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions examined the incidence of
childhood diabetes over large areas of England and Wales and the results failed to
demonstrate any correlation with nitrate concentrations in drinking water. 16
   Concern has also been expressed on the possible formation of nitrosamines, which are
potentially carcinogenic, within the digestive tract. Ingested nitrites, some of which may be
formed by bacterial reduction of nitrates, can react with secondary and tertiary amines
found in certain foods to give nitrosamines. There is however no epidemiological evidence
of an association between nitrite levels in water and cancer incidence.
   There are no simple methods for treating a water to reduce its nitrate-nitrite con-
centration, other than by blending it with another supply with low or negligible
concentrations of the same. Treatment processes currently used for nitrate removal include
desalination by ion exchange or membranes, and biological removal under controlled
conditions using denitrifying bacteria (see Sections 8.23 et seq.).
   The WHO guideline values are 50 rag/1 as NO3 for nitrate and 3 mg/1 as NO2 for nitrite,
with a further provisional value of 0.2 rag/1 as NO2 for nitrite based on chronic effects.
There is a caveat that the sum of the ratio of the concentrations of nitrate and nitrite to
their respective guideline values should not exceed one, i.e.
         Concentration of nitrite Concentration of nitrate
                                 +                         <1.
         Guide value for nitrite   Guide value for nitrate -
The current UK standards are 50 mg/1 as NO3 for nitrate and 0.1 mg/1 as NO2 for nitrite.
The maximum value for nitrate remains the same under the EC Directive but that for
nitrite is increased to 0.5 mg/1 as NO2 in the water at consumers' taps. A ratio of NO3/50
+ NO2/3 <__1has to be met. There is also a treatment standard of 0.1 mg/1 as NO2 for
nitrite in the water leaving a treatment works. The USEPA MCL is slightly lower for
nitrate at 10 mg/1 as N. The MCL for nitrite is marginally higher than the WHO guideline
at 1 mg/1 as N and the USEPA also has a combined nitrate/nitrite standard of 10 mg/1
as N.
                                                                         6.32 Pesticides   213


6.31    Organic matter and chemical oxygen demand (COD)
The organic matter found in water can come from a variety of sources such as plant and
animal material, including partially treated domestic waste and industrial effluents. The
total organics present in a water can be estimated from the chemical oxygen demand
(COD), the oxygen absorbed permanganate value (PV) or from the total organic carbon
content (TOC). The oxygen demand tests are indirect measures of the total organic carbon
by determining its oxidisability. All are gross measures of the total concentration of
organic substances and are usually dominated by the concentration of natural organics,
e.g. humic and fulvic acids. (Humic and fulvic acids are complex molecular structures in
water comprising a major portion of the decay of humus, which is the product of
biodegradation and decay of plant, animal, and microbial residues.) There are no
numerical standards for TOC in drinking water.

Organic micropollutants
The application of gas chromatography and mass spectrometry to water analysis since the
1970s has revealed the presence of many hundreds of different organic compounds. These
are derived from naturally occurring substances in the environment, as well as from
materials produced, used or discarded by industry and agriculture, and, when present, are
usually at very low concentrations of less than 1 #g/1. Some are known to be toxic or
carcinogenic to animals at concentrations far higher than detected in drinking water. Some
are known to be mutagenic (i.e. capable of making heritable changes to living cells) under
laboratory testing. A number have yet to be identified fully.
   Assessment of the risk these compounds might present to human health at the low levels
found in water is difficult. Different methods of extrapolating data obtained from
observing the effect of high concentrations on animals, in order to deduce the risk to
human health of ingesting far smaller quantities, have given results in some cases varying
by several orders of magnitude. 17 Epidemiological studies to discover some statistical
relationship between cancer mortality and water type (e.g. comparing the effect of using
surface waters likely to contain organic matter, with the effect of using groundwater likely
to contain less) show 'some association' in some studies, whilst other studies have given
inconsistent results. Thus any risk to health due to the presence of organic micropollutants
in water is likely to be very small, difficult to measure, and to be manifest only after a long
period of exposure. However the potential risk has led to the view that, where possible, the
concentration of certain pollutants should be kept as low as possible in drinking water.
   The WHO Guidelines list guide values for a number of organic compounds, as does the
USEPA under its various organics rules (see Table 6.1(C)).


6.32     Pesticides
Pesticides cover a wide range of compounds used as insecticides, herbicides, fungicides,
and algicides. The term can also refer to chemicals with other uses such as wood
preservation, public hygiene, industrial pest control, soil sterilisation, plant growth
regulation, masonry biocides, bird and animal repellents and anti-fouling paints.
  Pesticides find their way into natural waters from direct application for aquatic plant
and insect control, from percolation and runoff from agricultural land, from aerial drift in
land application, and from industrial discharges. Organic pesticides are often toxic to
214   Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water


aquatic life even in trace amounts and some, particularly some of the organo-chlorine
compounds, are very resistant to chemical and biochemical degradation. Where pesticides
and algicides are used for aquatic control they can cause deoxygenation as a result of the
decomposition of the treated vegetation. This in turn can cause other .problems such as the
dissolution of iron and manganese and the production of tastes and odours.
   Even with controlled application, traces of pesticides are still found in sewage effluents
and in a number of underground waters and rivers used for public supply purposes.
Pesticides used in non-agricultural situations, particularly on hard surfaces, pose a higher
risk of contaminating water sources. Accidental discharges of pesticides in bulk to
watercourses occasionally occur and can have serious implications, causing fish death and
making it necessary for a temporary shutdown of any water intakes.
   Some 450 individual substances are currently approved for use as pesticides in the UK.
The DoE publication Guidance on Safeguarding the Quality of Public Water Supplies lists
and provides information on the pesticides most widely used and likely to be detected in
water supplies in the U K . 9 However the amounts of pesticides which may be consumed
from drinking water are in most cases only a small fraction of those likely to be consumed
from foodstuffs.
   Many pesticides are insoluble in water or have limited solubility; others degrade readily,
depending on the soil type. Many are rapidly adsorbed onto sediment or suspended
material and this property can be utilised for removing pesticides in treatment processes
involving coagulation followed by sedimentation and filtration. Oxidation using ozone,
chlorine, chlorine dioxide, or potassium permanganate effectively breaks down organic
pesticides, although in some cases the use of chlorine or ozone may result in degradation
products which are more toxic than the original pesticide, or give rise to odorous com-
pounds (see Section 6.21). Ultra-violet radiation, when used on good quality ground-
waters, has also been shown to effectively degrade low concentrations of atrazine. 18 For
more effective pesticide removal, adsorption onto activated carbon should be adopted
either with or without a pre-oxidation stage (see Sections 8.35 and 8.36). A preferable
policy is to restrict the levels of pesticides in water prior to treatment, rather than having to
remove them in the treatment process. To this end atrazine and simazine, which were
commonly used herbicides in the UK, have been banned for non-agricultural use.
   The WHO has set guideline values or provisional guideline values for 41 individual
pesticides, including TCA which may also be present as a disinfection by-product (see
 Section 6.21). The EC Directive sets a maximum value of 0.1 ~g/1 for most individual
pesticides and 0.5 #g/1 for total pesticides (i.e. the sum of the individual pesticide results
 for any one sample). The individual pesticide limit was introduced in the EC Directive of
 1980. It was based on a surrogate zero, effectively derived from the analytical limits of
 detection available at the time, and does not take into account of the wide variation in the
 toxicity of different types of pesticide. The current Directive specifies lower standards for
 aldrin, dieldrin, heptachlor and heptachlor epoxide on toxicological grounds. However
 aldrin, dieldrin, heptachlor and heptachlor epoxide are no longer approved for use in the
 UK. The UK Regulations stipulate the same limits of 0.1 #g/1 for individual pesticides and
 0.5 #g/1 for total pesticides but the Guidance on Safeguarding the Quality of Public Water
 Supplies 9 contains a list of 39 named pesticides with health related advisory values. The
 USEPA has MCLs for 29 individual pesticides or their derivatives, some of which have
 been restricted for use since the early 1980s.
                                                                           6.34 Phenols    215


6.33     pH value or hydrogen ion
The pH value, or log of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration, is a
measurement of the acidity of a water. It is one of the most important determinations in
water chemistry as many of the processes involved in water treatment are pH dependent.
Pure water is very slightly ionised into positive hydrogen (H +) ions and negative hydroxyl
(OH-) ions. In very general terms a solution is said to be neutral when the numbers of
hydrogen ions and hydroxyl ions are equal, each corresponding to an approximate
concentration of 10-7 moles/1. This neutral point is temperature dependent and occurs at
pH 7.0 at 25~ When the concentration of hydrogen ions exceeds that of the hydroxyl
ions (i.e. at pH values less than 7.0) the water has acid characteristics. Conversely when
there is an excess of hydroxyl ions (i.e. the pH value is greater than 7.0) the water has basic
characteristics and is described as being on the alkaline side of neutrality.
   The pH value of unpolluted water is mainly determined by the inter-relationship
between free carbon dioxide and the amounts of carbonate and bicarbonate present (see
Section 8.40). The pH values of most natural waters are in the range 4-9, with soft acidic
waters from moorland areas generally having lower pH values and hard waters which have
percolated through chalk or limestone generally having higher pH values.
   Most water treatment processes, but particularly clarification and disinfection, require
careful pH control to fully optimise the efficacy of the process. The pH of the water
entering distribution must also be controlled to minimise the corrosion potential of the
water. The use of cement mortar relining of mains in soft water areas can result in
unacceptably high pH values over a long period of time until the system stabilises.
  The WHO proposes a treatment pH value of <8.0 for effective disinfection with
chlorine. The EC Directive sets a pH range of >6.5 to <_9.5, whereas the current UK
Regulations give a range of 5.5-9.5 for the pH value of water at consumer's taps. Likewise
the USEPA sets a pH range of 6.5-8.5 as a SMCL.




6.34    Phenols
The phenolic compounds found in surface waters are usually a result of pollution from
trade wastes such as petrochemicals, washings from tarmac roads, gas liquors, and
creosoted surfaces. Natural phenols can be released in water from decaying algae or higher
vegetation. Traces of phenols and other phenol like compounds may also be found in good
quality groundwaters, especially in areas with coal or oil-bearing strata. Most phenols,
even in minute concentrations, produce chlorophenols on chlorination (see Section 6.21).
These are objectionable in both taste and odour. The taste thresholds vary depending on
the chlorophenol formed, but all are at very low concentrations. Phenols can be effectively
removed by superchlorination, whereby the excess chlorine chemically decomposes the
phenol; by oxidation with ozone; or by adsorption onto activated carbon. However it is
preferable to seek to eliminate the source wherever possible.
   The WHO sets health based guidelines for trichloro- and pentachlorophenol, although
the threshold taste concentration for trichlorophenol, at 2 #g/l, is one-hundredth that of
the health level. The current UK Regulations standard for phenols is 0.5/~g/1.
216 Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water


6.35 Phosphates
Phosphates in surface waters mainly originate from sewage effluents which contain
phosphate-based synthetic detergents, from industrial effluents, or from land runoff where
inorganic fertilisers have been used in farming. Groundwaters usually contain insignificant
concentrations of phosphates, unless they have become polluted. Phosphorous is one of
the essential nutrients for algal growth and can contribute significantly to eutrophication
of lakes and reservoirs (see Section 6.70).
   Orthophosphates may be added during water treatment for plumbosolvency control
(see Section 6.27). The applied dose is initially around 1 rag/1 as P and is gradually
decreased to around 0.6 rag/1 as P as the treatment takes effect. The amount added is
considered unlikely to be of environmental significance in most situations.


6.36 Polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs)
PAHs are a group of organic compounds comprising two or more benzene rings of carbon
atoms and occur widely in the environment as the result of incomplete combustion of
organic material. Trace amounts of PAHs have been found in industrial and domestic
effluents. Their solubility in water is very low but can be enhanced by detergents and by
other organic solvents which may be present.
   Whilst PAHs are n o t very biodegradable, they tend to be taken out of solution by
adsorption onto particulate matter. If present in raw waters, they are usually removed
during coagulation, sedimentation and filtration. However, they can be re-introduced in
the distribution system from mains that have been lined with coal tar pitch. Until the 1970s
coal tar, which can contain up to 50% of PAHs, was used to line iron water mains to
prevent rusting. In some situations this lining may eventually break down, releasing PAHs
in solution and as particulates into the water. There is also evidence that chlorine dioxide,
when used as a disinfectant or for taste and odour control, can result in elevated
concentrations of PAHs at consumers' taps. 9 There tends to be a seasonal variation in the
concentrations found, with solubility linked to water temperature.
   Several PAHs are known to be carcinogenic at concentrations considerably higher than
those found in drinking water, with exposure from food and cigarette smoke being far
greater than that from drinking water. Monitoring is normally carried out for six indicator
parameters, namely fluoranthene, benzo(b)fluoranthene, benzo(k)fluoranthene, benzo(a)-
pyrene, benzo(ghi)perylene and indeno (1,2,3-cd) pyrene. The WHO Guidelines set a value
of 0.7 #g/1 for benzo(a)pyrene (or benzo-3,4-pyrene) only. Likewise the USEPA has a
MCL of 0.0002 mg/1 (or 0.2 #g/l) for benzo(a)pyrene only. The current UK standard is
0.2 #g/1 for a total of the six indicator PAHs, with a separate standard of 10 ng/1 (or
0.01 #g/l) for benzo(a)pyrene as an annual average. The EC Directive sets a maximum
value of 0.1 #g/1 for a total of five of the indicator PAHs, excluding fluoranthene, the most
commonly detected PAH in drinking water. It also sets a maximum value of 0.01 #g/1 for
benzo(a)pyrene.


6.37 Potassium
Although potassium is one of the abundant elements, the concentration found in most
natural waters rarely exceeds 20 rag/1. Much higher levels being found in spa waters.
                                                                  6.38 Radioactive substances         217


6.38      Radioactive substances
People are exposed to a number of naturally occurring and man-made sources of
environmental radiation. The average global human exposure from natural sources of
radiation is estimated at 2.4 mSv/year.* This exposure from natural sources is estimated to
contribute more than 98% of the total dose to the population, excluding medical exposure.
There are large local variations in this exposure depending on the type of radionuclides in
the soil, the height above sea level and the amount taken in from air, food and water. The
contribution of drinking water to total exposure is generally extremely small and is mainly
due to naturally occurring nuclides in the uranium and thorium decay series.
   The concentrations of radionuclides in water sources used for drinking water supplies
may be increased by a number of human activities. For example radionuclides from the
nuclear fuel and power industry, from medical uses and from other uses of radioactive
materials may contaminate water sources. Contributions from these uses are normally
limited by regulatory control of discharges to the aqueous and other sectors of the
environment. If there was concern about contamination of a water source or a drinking
water supply these regulatory controls should be used to ensure that remedial action was
taken.
   The International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) provides detailed
advice and recommendations on the control of exposure to radiation. ~9 The ICRP advice
and recommendations has been used by the W H O in formulating its recommendations on
the radiological aspects of drinking water supplies. The W H O recommends that:
9    the reference level of committed effective dose is 0.1 mSv from 1 year's consumption
     of drinking water. This reference level of dose represents less than 5% of the average
     effective dose each year from natural background radiation; and
9    below this reference level of dose, drinking water is acceptable for human consum-
     ption and action to reduce radioactivity is not necessary.
These recommendations apply to existing routine operational water supplies and to new
supplies. They do not apply to drinking water supplies contaminated during an emergency
involving the release of radionuclides into the environment - other advice is available in
these circumstances. The Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions
would provide such guidance in the event of a civil emergency involving radioactive
substances occurring in England and Wales.
   For practical purposes the reference level of dose needs to be expressed as activity
concentrations of radionuclides in drinking water and the W H O guidelines give
concentrations of 0.1 Bq/lt for gross alpha activity and 1.0 Bq/1 for gross beta activity
for monitoring purposes. These concentrations are regarded as screening levels for drinking
water and no further action is needed if the monitoring shows that activities are below these
levels. It does not necessarily mean that the reference level of dose is exceeded if these gross
alpha or gross beta screening levels are exceeded. In such circumstances the specific
radionuclides should be identified and their individual activity concentrations measured. A
dose estimate should then be made for each radionuclide using activity to dose conversion

*mSv (millisievert); sievert is the 'effective dose equivalent'. It is a measure of the effect produced by
different types of radiation on a person, taking into account the nature of the radiation and the
organs exposed.
t Bq (becquerel) corresponds to one nuclear transformation per second; 1 curie (Ci) - 37  109 Bq.
218    Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

factors (for 1 year's consumption of 2 litres of water per day) and the sum of the doses
calculated to determine whether the reference level of dose is in danger of being exceeded.
When this estimate of dose is made from a single sample, the reference level of dose would
only be exceeded if exposure to the measured concentrations were to continue for a full year.
Thus when a single sample indicates that the reference level of dose is in danger of being
exceeded, it does not necessarily mean that the water supply is unsuitable for consumption,
but it is a signal for further .investigation of the supply. This should include further sampling
and if this shows that the reference level of dose is likely to be exceeded, the options
available to reduce the dose should be considered and implemented where they are justified.
Further details of the application of the gross alpha and gross beta screening levels and the
reference level of dose to drinking water supplies can be found in Chapter 4 of the 1993
WHO Guidelines for Drinking-Water Quality. ~
   The WHO has also recommended a provisional guideline value for uranium in drinking
water of 2 #g/1 based on its chemical toxicity and without taking into account any
radiological effects. This is considerably lower than the proposed USEPA MCL of 20 #g/1.
The USEPA also has proposed and interim standards for a number of radionuclides,
including alpha and beta emitters and radium-226 and -228.
   About 30 water sources (prior to treatment for drinking water supply) in England and
Wales are monitored regularly for the Department of the Environment, Transport and the
Regions for gross alpha and gross beta activities and for selected specific radionuclide
concentrations. These sources supply about one-third of the population. The results are
reported annually in the Department's Digest of Environmental Statistics. Practically all
samples have been below the gross alpha and gross beta screening levels and any
exceedences of these values have been marginal and transient. Many of the radionuclides
detected are of natural origin, but traces of some artificial radionuclides are found; these are
mainly from atmospheric fall out and sometimes from aqueous discharges, such as iodine-
 125 from medical use. Similar monitoring is carried out in Scotland and Northern Ireland.


6.39     Silica
Silica can be found in water in several forms, caused by the degradation of silica-
containing rocks such as quartz and sandstone. Natural waters can contain between 1 mg/
1 of silica in the case of soft moorland waters and up to about 40 mg/1 in some hard waters.
Much higher levels are found in waters from volcanic or geothermal areas.
   There is no evidence of silica in drinking water constituting a health hazard and no
standards have been set. However it is a troublesome material in a number of industrial
processes because it forms a very hard scale which is difficult to remove.


6.40     Silver
Trace amounts of silver are occasionally found in natural waters but it is rarely found in
detectable concentrations in drinking water. However silver is sometimes used as a
disinfectant in domestic water treatment units or point of use devices (e.g. ceramic filter
candles or granular activated carbon impregnated with silver) and waters so treated may
contain levels of 50 #g/1 or more as silver chloride. The current UK standard is 10 #g/l, except
where silver has been used in the treatment process, when up to 80 #g/1 may be authorised.
Silver vessels were prized in antiquity for storing water because of their disinfectant property.
                                                                 6.43 Suspended solids 219


6.41    Sodium
Sodium compounds are very abundant within the environment and are also very soluble.
The element is present in most natural waters at levels ranging from less than 1 mg/1 to
several thousand mg/1 in brines. The threshold taste for sodium in drinking water depends
on several factors, such as the predominant anion present and the water temperature. The
threshold taste as sodium chloride is around 150 mg/1 as Na, whereas the threshold taste
as sodium sulphate is much higher at around 220 mg/1 as Na. 2~
   The use of base exchange or lime-soda processes to soften hard waters can lead to a
significant increase in the sodium concentration of the softened water. Apart from the
possibility of imparting taste, such increases could be detrimental to consumers on sodium
restricted diets. The W H O guideline value for sodium is 200 mg/1, based on taste. The
current U K standard is a maximum of 150 mg/1, based on 80% compliance; however
sodium is an indicator parameter in the EC Directive at the same value as the W H O
guideline. There is no USEPA standard.


6.42    Sulphates
The concentration of sulphate in natural waters can vary over a wide range from a few
mg/1 to several thousand mg/1 in brackish waters and brines. Sulphates come from several
sources such as the dissolution of gypsum and other mineral deposits containing sulphates;
from seawater intrusion; from the oxidation of sulphides, sulphites, and thiosulphates in
well aerated surface waters; and from industrial effluents where sulphates or sulphuric acid
have been used in processes such as tanning and pulp paper manufacturing. Sulphurous
flue gases discharged to atmosphere in industrial areas often result in acid rain water
containing appreciable levels of sulphate.
   High levels of sulphate in water can impart taste and, when combined with magnesium
or sodium, can have a laxative effect (e.g. Epsom salts). Consumers tend to become
acclimatised to high sulphate waters and, in some parts of the world, waters with very high
sulphate contents have to be used as there is no alternative.
   Bacterial reduction of sulphates under anaerobic conditions can produce hydrogen
sulphide, which is an objectionable gas smelling of bad eggs. This can occur in deep well
waters and the odour rapidly disappears with efficient aeration. It can also occur if there is
seawater intrusion to a shallow aquifer which is polluted by sewage.
   The W H O guideline value is 250 mg/1 SO4, based on taste and corrosion potential. This
is the same value as the current U K standard; the EC Directive standard, where sulphate is
an indicator parameter; and the USEPA SMCL. The W H O recommends that health
authorities be notified if sulphate levels exceed 500 mg/1 in drinking water and this is the
same level as the proposed USEPA M C L on health grounds.


6.43    Suspended solids
The suspended solids content or filter residue of a water quantifies the amount of
particulate material present in the water. This includes both organic and inorganic matter
such as plankton, clay and silt.
  The suspended solids content of a surface water can vary widely depending on flow and
season, with some rivers under flood conditions having several thousand mg/1 in
220    Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

suspension. The measurement of suspended solids is usually on a weight-volume basis and
gives no indication as to the type of material in suspension, the particle size distribution, or
the settling characteristics. Adequate treatment should always be applied to remove
suspended solids prior to final disinfection, otherwise the efficacy of the disinfection
process is likely to be impaired.


6.44     Taste and odour
There are four basic taste sensations, namely sweet, sour, salt, and bitter. What is regarded
as taste is in fact a combination of these sensations with the sensation of smell. In
examining water samples, the odour rather than the taste of a slightly warm sample is
often evaluated because it avoids putting a possibly suspect sample into the mouth. It is
desirable however to sample the taste of a final treated water. A subjective or qualitative
assessment of the taste or odour is often carried out at the time of sampling. This can then
be supplemented by an quantitative measurement, reported as the Dilution Number (or
the Threshold Number), which is carried out under controlled laboratory conditions. The
quantitative test is based on the number of dilutions of the sample with taste and odour-
free water necessary to eliminate the taste or odour.
   Many tastes and odours are caused by natural contaminants such as extracellular and
decomposition products of plants, algae and micro fungi. Certain of the blue-green algae
and actinomycetes, when present in a raw water, can give rise to very distinctive earthy
and musty tastes and odours (see Section 6.69). Raw waters contaminated by agricultural
and industrial discharges may also give rise to severe taste and odour problems, which are
often exacerbated by the use of chlorine for disinfection. Chlorine itself can often give rise
to extensive taste and odour complaints, especially if the applied dose has been increased
suddenly for operational reasons. Astringent tastes can arise from the dissolution of
plumbing materials such as zinc or copper.
   The taste and odour of drinking water can be very subjective. Consumers become
familiar with a particular taste or odour associated with their local water supply and tend
only to notice significant changes or differences, such as when there has been a change in
treatment for operational reasons or when they move to a new water supply. The WHO
Guidelines stipulate that the taste and odour of drinking water should be acceptable to
consumers. The same approach is adopted by the EC Directive, with the additional caveat
that there should be no abnormal change. However the current UK Regulations specify
maximum threshold numbers at 25~ and the USEPA has a similar SMCL, without the
temperature limitation.


6.45     Turbidity
The measurement of turbidity, although not quantitatively precise, is a simple useful
indicator of the condition of a water. It is defined as the optical property that causes light
to be scattered and absorbed rather than transmitted in straight lines through a sample.
Although turbidity is caused by material in suspension, it is difficult to correlate it with the
quantitative measurement of suspended solids in a sample, as the shape, size, and
refractive indices of the particles in suspension all affect their light-scattering properties.
For the same reason turbidity measurements can vary according to the type of instrument
used. Nephelometers measure the intensity of light scattered in one particular direction
                              6.47 Drinking water standards (chemical and physical)     221


and are highly sensitive for measuring low turbidities. Other instruments measure the
amount of light absorbed by particles when light is passed through a water sample. Early
measurements were made using the Jackson Candle Turbidimeter, with the results
reported in Jackson units (JTU). However this is a fairly crude form of measurement, as
are some of the other earlier instruments measuring in silica scale units, and is not really
suitable for measuring low turbidities. The preferred methods now use a primary standard
based on a chemical called formazin which, if used to calibrate nephelometric instruments,
gives an equivalent turbidity measurement in F T U (i.e. F T U = NTU).
   Raw water turbidities can vary over a very wide range, from virtually zero to several
thousand NTU. Effective treatment should be able to produce final waters with turbidity
levels of less than 1 NTU, which is the level recommended for efficient disinfection with
chlorine. Turbidity meters are valuable in monitoring the various stages of treatment, such
as the amount of flocculant material passing from clarifiers to filters and the performance
of individual or groups of filters. However particle size counters may well eventually take
over from turbidity meters as the optimum analytical tool for monitoring the performance
of rapid gravity filters, particularly at the start of a filter run.
   Turbidities above 5 N T U may be discernible to consumers. The W H O Guidelines set
this as the maximum level acceptable to consumers but also set a treatment standard of
less than or equal to 1 N T U for successful disinfection. The EC Directive has a similar
requirement in that the water at consumers' taps must have a turbidity which is acceptable,
without specifying a value, but goes on to set a treatment standard of less than 1 N T U
for effective disinfection. The USEPA has likewise set turbidity standards of 5 N T U for
surface waters used as drinking water without filtration; less than or equal to 1 N T U
for slow sand or diatomaceous earth filtered water; and less than or equal to 0.5 N T U for
conventional or direct filtration. The current UK regulations has a maximum standard for
turbidity of 4 F T U at consumers' taps.



6.46    Zinc
Zinc tends to be found only in trace amounts in unpolluted surface waters and
groundwaters. However, it is often found in the water at consumers' taps as a result of
corrosion of galvanised iron piping or tanks and dezincification of brass fittings. The
concentrations usually found in drinking water are unlikely to be detrimental to health.
   Excess zinc can give rise to an undesirable astringent taste and also cause opalescence.
The W H O guideline value of 3 mg/1 is based on taste and appearance. The current U K
standard is 5000 #g/1 at the consumer's tap; the equivalent USEPA SMCL of 5 mg/1 is
based on taste.



Part II Water quality standards for chemical and physical parameters

6.47    Drinking water standards (chemical and physical)
Tables 6.1(A)-(D) list many of the chemical and physical standards given in the 1993
W H O Guidelines for Drinking Water Quality; the current U K Water Supply (Water
Quality) Regulations of 1989; the EC Directive (98/83/EC) on the quality of water
intended for human consumption which came into force on 25 December 1998; and the
Table 6.1(A)   Physical characteristics and substances undesirable in excess

                         WHO Guidelines           UK Water Supply                 EC Directive              USEPA Regulations
                         1993                     (Water Quality)                 98/83/EC                  under 1996 Safe Drinking
                         guideline levels         Regulations 1989                November 1998             Water Act amendments
                         (a)                                                      (b)
                                                                                                            SMCL
Colour                   15 true colour units     20 mg/1 Pt/Co scale             Acceptable to consumers   15 colour units
                                                                                  and no abnormal change
Turbidity                5 NTU                    4 F T U - including suspended   Acceptable to consumers   5 NTU max
                         < 1 NTU (TS)             solids                           and no abnormal change   0.5-1.0 N T U (TS)
                                                                                  < 1 N T U (TS)
Taste/odour as           Acceptable               Dilution number of 3 @ 25~      Acceptable to consumers
threshold numbers                                                                 and no abnormal change
Hydrogen sulphide        0.05 mg/1                Included in odour
Temperature                                       25~
pH (Hydrogen ion)        <8.0 (TS)                5.5-9.5                         >6.5 and < 9.5            6.5-8.5
Residual chlorine        600-1000 #g/1
Dry residues             1000 mg/1                1500 mg/1(c)                                              500 mg/1
Conductivity                                      1500 #S/cm @ 20~ (d)            2500 #S/cm @ 20~
Alkalinity (HCO3)                                30 minimum (e) mg/1
Total hardness (Ca)                              60 rag/1 minimum (e)
Chloride (C1)            250 mg/1                400 mg/1(d)                      250 mg/1                  250 mg/1
Fluoride                                    see Table 6.1 (B)                                               2.0 mg/1- see also Table 6.1(B)
Sulphate (SO4)           250 mg/1                250 mg/1                         250 rag/1                 250 mg/1- see also Table 6.1(B)
Ammonia and              1.5 mg/1 as NH3         0.5 mg/1 as NH4                  0.5 rag/1 as NH4
ammonium ion
Calcium (Ca)                                     250 mg/1(d)
Magnesium (Mg)                                   50 mg/1
Phosphorus (P)                                   2200#g/1


                                                                                                                                 (Continued)
Table 6.1(A) (cont&ued)    Physical characteristics and substances undesirable in excess

                               WHO Guidelines          UK Water Supply                     EC Directive            USEPA Regulations
                               1993                    (Water Quality)                     98/83/EC                under 1996 Safe Drinking
                               guideline levels        Regulations 1989                    November 1998           Water Act amendments
                               (a)                                                         (b)                     SMCL
Potassium (K)                                          12 mg/1
Sodium (Na)                                            150 mg/1(f)                         200 mg/1
Aluminium (A1)                 0.2 mg/1                200 #g/1                            200 #g/1                0.05-0.2 mg/1
Copper (Cu)                    1.0 mg/1 - see also     3000 #g/1                                                   1.0 mg/1- see also Table 6.1(B)
                               Table 6.1 (B)
Iron (Fe)                      0.3 mg/1                200 #g/1                            200 #g/1                0.3 mg/1
Manganese (Mn)                 0.10 mg/1 - see also    50 #g/1                             50/zg/1                 0.05 mg/1
                               Table 6.1 (B)
Silver (Ag)                                            10#g/1(g)
Zinc (Zn)                      3.0 mg/1                5000 #g/1                                                    5 mg/1
Dissolved and emulsified                               10ug/1
hydrocarbons
Kjeldahl Nitrogen (N)                                  1 mg/1
Oxidisability (O2)                                     5 mg/1                              5 mg/1
Phenols (C6HsOH)                                       0.5 #g/1
Surfactants or foaming                                 200 #g/1 as lauryl sulphate                                  0.5 mg/1
agents
Total organic carbon                                   No significant increase over        No abnormal change
                                                       normal

Notes.
S M C L - Secondary maximum contaminant level (USA, not mandatory). T S - Standard applies to treated water ex treatment works.
(a)Guideline Levels above which customer complaints may arise. (b)Indicator parameters with values set for monitoring purposes. Any exceedances
must be investigated. (C)After drying at 180~ ~d)Annual average. (e)For softened water only. (f)80% compliance. (g)Exceptionally 80 #g/1 if silver is
used in treatment.
Table 6.1(B)   Inorganic substances of health significance

                              WHO Guidelines                 UK Water Supply    EC Directive     USEPA Regulations
                              1993                           (Water Quality)    98/83/EC         1996 Safe Drinking
                              Guideline values               Regulations 1989   November 1998    Water Act amendments
                                                                                                 MCL
Antimony (Sb)                 0.005 mg/1 (P)                 10 #g/1            5 #g/1           0.006 mg/1
Arsenic (As)                  0.01 mg/1 (P)                  50 #g/1            10/zg/1          0.05 mg/1(a)
Asbestos > 10 #m                                                                                 7 x 106 fibres/1
Barium (Ba)                   0.7 mg/1                       1,000 #g/1(b)                       2 mg/1
Beryllium (Be)                                                                                   0.004 mg/1
Boron (B)                     0.5 mg/1 (P)                   2,000 #g/1(b)      1.0 mg/1
Bromate (BrO3)                25 #g/1 (P)                                       10 #g/1          0.010 mg/1
Cadmium (Cd)                  0.003 mg/1                     5 ug/1             5 #g/1           0.005 mg/1
Chlorate (C103)                                              0.7 mg/1(c)
Chlorine (C12)                5 mg/l                                                             4.0 mg/1
Chlorite (C102)               200 #g/1 (P)                   0.5 mg/1(d)                         0.8 mg/1
Chromium (Cr)                 0.05 mg/1 (P)                  50 #g/1            50 #g/1          0.1 mg/1
Copper (Cu)                   2 mg/1 (P)                     3,000 #g/1         2.0 mg/1         1.3 mg/1(e) - see also Table 6.1 (A)
Cyanide (CN)                  0.07 mg/1                      50 #g/1            50 #g/1          0.2 mg/1
Fluoride (F)                  1.5 mg/1(f)                    1,500 #g/1         1.5 mg/1         4 mg/1 - see also Table 6.1 (A)
Lead (Pb)                     0.01 mg/1                      50 #g/1(g)         10 #g/1 (h)      0.015 mg/1(i)
Manganese (Mn)                0.5 mg/1 (P)
Mercury (Hg)                  0.001 mg/1                     1.0 #g/1           1.0 #g/1         0.002 mg/1
Molybdenum (Mo)               0.07 mg/1
Nickel (Ni)                   20/zg/1 (P)                    50 #g/1            20 #g/1          0.1 mg/1
Nitrate                       50 mg/1 as NO3 (j)             50 mg/1 as NO3     50 mg/1 as NO3   10 mg/1 as N

                                                                                                                         (Continued)
Table 6.1(B) (continued)

                                          WHO Guidelines             UK Water Supply            EC Directive                USEPA Regulations
                                          1993                       (Water Quality)            98/83/EC                    1996 Safe Drinking
                                          Guideline values           Regulations 1989           November 1998               Water Act amendments
                                                                                                                            MCL
Nitrite                                   3 mg/1 as NO2 (j)          0.1 mg/1 as NO2            0.5 mg/1 as NO2             1 mg/1 as N
                                                                                                (0.1 rag/1 ex works)
Nitrate + nitrite                         Sum of ratio of                                       NO3/50 mg/l                 10 mg/1 as N
                                          concentrations < 1                                    + NO2/3 mg/1 < 1
Selenium (Se)                             0.01 mg/1                  10/zg/1                    10 ug/1                     0.05 mg/1
Sulphate (804)                                                         See Table 6.1 (A)                                    500 mg/l(proposed)
Thallium                                                                                                                    0.002 mg/1
Tritium                                                                                         100 Bq/1
Total indicative dose for radioactivity                                                         0.10 mSv/year (k)
Uranium                                   2 #g/1 (P)                                                                        20 #g/1 (proposed)

Notes.
M C L - Maximum contaminant level (USA, mandatory). P - Provisional guideline value (WHO).
(a)Interim standard.
(b)Annual average.
(e)In the treated water where on-site electrolytic chlorine generation is used
(d)Where chlorine dioxide is used in treatment, the combined concentration of chlorine dioxide, chlorite and chlorate should not exceed 0.5 mg/1 as
chlorine dioxide in the water entering supply.
(e)Action level, exceeded if the concentration of copper in more than 10% of tap water samples collected during any monitoring period is greater than
1.3 mg/1.
(0Value must depend on climate and local conditions.
(g)The standard applies to the first draw sample without flushing.
(h)The value applies to a sample of water intended for human consumption obtained by an adequate sampling method at the tap and taken so as to be
representative of a weekly average value ingested by consumers. Interim standard of 25 #g/1.
(i)Action level, exceeded if the concentration of lead in more than 10% of tap water samples collected during any monitoring period is greater than
0.015 mg/1.
(J)Acute effects; provisional standard of 0.2 mg/1 for nitrite based on chronic effects.
(k)Excluding tritium, potassium-40, radon and radon decay products.
Table 6.1(C) Organic substances of health significance (The EC Directive covers only a short list of mandatory standards for organic constituents
and these are listed first)

                                  WHO Guidelines              UK Water Supply              EC Directive               USEPA Regulations
                                  1993                        (Water Quality)              98/83/EC                   under 1996 Safe Drinking
                                  Guideline values            Regulations 1989             November 1998              Water Act amendments
                                                                                                                      MCL
Acrylamide                        0.5 #g/1                                                 O. 10 #g/1 (a)             TT
Benzene                           10 #g/1                                                  1.0 #g/1                   0.005 mg/1
1,2-dichloroethane                30/zg/1                                                  3.0 #g/1                   0.005 mg/1
Epichlorohydrin                   0.4 #g/1 (P)                                             0.10 #g/1 (a)              TT
Pesticides- Total                                             0.50 #g/1(b)                 0.50 #g/1(b)
Pesticides individual                                         0.10 #g/1(b)                 0.10 #g/1 (b)
substances, except for:
Aldrin                            0.03   #g/1                                              0.030 #g/1
Dieldrin                          0.03   #g/1                                              0.030 #g/1
Heptachlor                        0.03   #g/1                                              0.030 #g/1                 0.0004 mg/1
Heptachlor epoxide                0.03   #g/1                                              0.030 #g/1                 0.0002 mg/1
Polycyclic aromatic                                           0.2 #g/1(c)                  O.10 p,g/1(d)
hydrocarbons
Benzo(a)pyrene                    0.7 #g/1                    10 ng/1(e)                   0.010 #g/1                 0.0002 mg/1
Tetrachloromethane                2 #g/1                      3/zg/1 (e)                                              0.005 mg/1
Trichloroethene                   70 #g/1 (P)                 30 #g/1(e)                   10 #g/1 (f)                0.005 mg/1
Tetrachloroethene                 40 #g/1                     10 #g/1(e)                   (0                         0.005 mg/1
Trihalomethanes                   (g)                         100 #g/1(h)                  1O0 #g/1 (i)               0.08 mg/1(i)
Vinyl chloride                    5 #g/1                                                   0.50 #g/1(a)               0.002 mg/1

                                                                                                                                      (continued)
Notes.
'Ethene' is the same as 'ethylene'.
M C L - Maximum contaminant level (US, mandatory).
T T - Treatment technique requirement.
taP) Provisional guideline value (WHO).
   )Residual monomer concentration.
(b)'Pesticides' means organic insecticides, herbicides, fungicides, nematocides, acaricides, algicides, rodenticides, slimicides and related products (inter
alia, growth regulators) and their related metabolites, degradation and reaction products. 'Total pesticides' means the sum of all individual pesticides
detected and quantified in the monitoring procedure.
(C)The sum of the detected concentrations of fluoranthene, benzo(b)fluoranthene, benzo(k) fluoranthene, benzo(a)pyrene, benzo(ghi)perylene and
indeno (1,2,3-cd) pyrene.
(d)The sum of the detected concentrations of benzo(b)fluoranthene, benzo(k)fluoranthene, benzo(a)pyrene, benzo(ghi)perylene and indeno (1,2,3-cd)
~e~Arene"
      nnual average.
(0Sum of tetrachloroethene + trichloroethene.
(g)Standards for individual THMs of 200 #g/1 chloroform (trichloromethane), 100 #g/1 bromoform (tribromomethane), 100 #g/1 dibromo-chloro-
methane and 60 #g/1 bromodichloromethane, with the sum of the ratio of concentrations for each to their respective GV not exceeding one.
(h)Three-monthly rolling mean.
(i)The sum of the detected concentrations of trichloromethane, tribromomethane, dibromochloromethane and bromodichloromethane. A lower value
should be aimed for, if possible, without compromising disinfection.
228     Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

Table 6.1(D)   Other pesticides and associated substances (not listed specifically under the European
Directive).

                                WHO Guidelines        USEPA Regulations
                                1993                  under 1996 Safe Drinking UK Advisory Values
                                Guideline values      Water Act amendments     (see Section 6.33)
                                in #g/1               MCL in mg/1              in #g/1
Pesticides and associated substances
Alachlor                         20                   0.002
Aldicarb                          10                  0.001 - not final
Atrazine                             2                0.003                     2
Bentazone                       300
Carbofuran                           7                0.04
Chlordane                         0.2                 0.002                     0.1 - total isomers
Chlortoluron                     30                                             80
Cyanazine                            0.6
DDT                                  2                                          7 - total isomers
 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane         1                0.0002
 1,2-dibromoethane (EDB)             0.4-15 (P) (a)
2,4-D                            30                   0.07                      1000
2,4-DB                           90
2,4,5-T                          9
2,4,5-TP (Silvex)                9                    0.O5
 1,2-dichloropropane             40 (P)               0.005
1,3-dichloropropene              20
Dalapon                                               0.2 (a)
Dichlorprop                     100                                             40
Dinoseb                                               0.007
Dioxin                                                3 x 10 -8
 Diquat                           10                  0.02
 Ethylene dibromide                                   0.00005
 Endothall                                            0.1
 Endrin                                               0.002
 Glyphosate                          (b)              0.7                       1,000
 Hexachlorobenzene                   1                0.001                     0.2
 Hexachlorobutadiene                 0.6 (c)
 Hexachlorocyclopentadiene                            0.05
 Isoproturon                         9                                          4
 Lindane                             2                0.0002
 MCPA                                2                                          0.5
 MCPB                                                                           0.5
 Mecoprop (MCPP)                  10                                            10
 Methoxychlor                     20                  0.04                      3O

                                                                                         (Continued)
                                  6.47 Drinking water standards (chemical and physical)   229


Table 6.1(D) (continued)

                             WHO Guidelines     USEPA Regulations
                             1993               under 1996 Safe Drinking UK Advisory Values
                             Guideline values   Water Act amendments     (see Section 6.33)
                             in #g/1            MCL in mg/1              in/~g/1
Metolachlor                      10
Molinate                          6
Oxamyl (Vydate)                                 0.2
Pendimethalin                20
Pentachlorophenol            9 (P)              0.001
Permethrin                   20
Picloram                                        0.5
Propanil                     20
Pyridate                     100
Simazine                     2                  0.004                     10
TCA (Trichloroacetic acid)   100 (c) (P)        0.3 (c)
Terbuthylazine               7
Toxaphene                                       0.003
Trifluralin                  20


Other organic substances
Chlorinated alkanes:
Dichloromethane                   20            0.005
 1,2-dichloroethane               30            0.005
 1,1,1-trichlorethane        2000 (P)            0.2
 1,1,2-trichlorethane                           0.005
Chlorinated ethenes:
1,1-dichloroethene                30            0.007
1,2-dichloroethenes               50             cis 0.07
                                                 trans O.1

Aromatic hydrocarbons:
Toluene                          700             1
Xylenes                          500            Total 10
Ethylbenzene                     300            0.7
Styrene                           20            0.1
Chlorinated benzenes:
Monochlorobenzene                300            0.1
1,2-dichlorobenzene          1000               0.6
1,4-dichlorobenzene              300            0.075
Trichlorobenzenes            T o t a l - 20      1, 2, 4 - 0.07

                                                                                   (Continued)
230      Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

Table 6.1(D) (continued)

                             WHO Guidelines     USEPA Regulations
                             1993               under 1996 Safe Drinking UK Advisory Values
                             Guideline values   Water Act amendments     (see Section 6.33)
                             in #g/1            M CL in mg/1             in #g/1
Disinfection by-products:
Chloroform                   200
2,4,6-trichlorophenol        200
Dichloroacetic acid           50 (P)
Trichloroacetic acid         100 (P)            0.060 total acids
Chloral hydrate               10 (P)            0.04 proposed
Dibromoacetonitrile          100 (P)
Dichloroacetonitrile          90 (P)
Trichloroacetonitrile          1 (P)
Formaldehyde                 900
Cyanogen chloride as CN       70
Other organic substances:
Di(2-ethylhexyl)adipate       80                0.4
Di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate      8                0.006
EDTA                         600
Microcystin LR                 1 (P)
Nitrilotriacetic acid        200
Polychlorinated biphenyls                       0.0005
(PCBs)
Tributyltin oxide              2

Notes.
(P)- Provisional.
(a) For excess risk of 10-5.
(b) No WHO guide value as the substance is not regarded as hazardous to health in drinking water.
(c) Can also be found in chlorinated water as a disinfection by-product.




USEPA requirements based on the National Primary Drinking Water Regulations as
amended under the Safe Drinking Water Act of 1996.
   The former W H O International Standards for Drinking Water of 1971 and earlier dates
may still apply in many countries where they were adopted as national standards with
modifications to allow for local conditions. The 1993 W H O Guidelines and subsequent
addendums consider many potential contaminants, particularly organic contaminants,
which were not included in the earlier editions. Supporting information is given to show
how each guideline value has been derived. The need to adopt a risk-benefit approach is
also emphasised, recognising that water must be made available 'even if the quality is not
entirely satisfactory'. The Guidelines recognise that there is a different type of health risk
                              6.47 Drink&g water standards (chemical and physical)       231


from toxic chemicals in drinking water to that posed by microbiological contamination,
with consumers being likely to reject a water because of unacceptable taste, odour or
appearance. Standards for chemical parameters have been set on the potential to cause
adverse health effects over long-term periods of exposure, either as cumulative toxins such
as lead or as possible carcinogens such as some of the organic parameters. In some
instances provisional guideline values have been set for potentially hazardous parameters,
where available data on health effects are currently poorly defined or limited. The
guideline values for aesthetic and organoleptic parameters have been set at levels that are
most likely to be acceptable to consumers.
   The Directive, although specifying many of the same values as the WHO Guidelines, is
essentially a legal document. The standards are defined to enable equal water qualities and
obligations to be achieved throughout the European Community. The frequency of
monitoring and the levels of analysis are also defined in the Directive. There are provisions
for special dispensations whereby individual public water suppliers can be allowed to
supply water not complying with a particular standard. Such 'derogations' are conditional
and are time limited to a maximum of three years. Under the current UK regulations
similar authorised relaxations are permitted when there are 'exceptional meteorological
conditions' or 'situations arising from the nature and structure of the ground' from which
the supply emanates, or in emergencies. The Directive has 38 numerical standards for
chemical and radiological parameters. Twenty-six of these standards are for chemical
parameters which are considered to be potentially hazardous to health. The remaining 12
standards, along with five parameters that do not have numerical values, are termed
indicator parameters and are included for monitoring purposes. These 17 parameters
relate mainly to the aesthetic and organoleptic characteristics of water. Member States are
allowed to set values for additional parameters not included in the Directive. They can
also adopt more stringent standards than those specified, although the Commission has to
be notified. The Directive requires any failure of a standard to be investigated and
necessary remedial action must be taken as soon as possible to restore water quality if
there is a health risk associated with the failure.
   The Water Supply (Water Quality) Regulations 1989 and subsequent amendments are
statutory instruments linked to the Water Industry Act 1991 and reflect the standards set
out in the 1980 EC Directive. 5 The Regulations apply to water undertakers in England and
Wales and are enforced by the Drinking Water Inspectorate. Similar legislation applies in
Scotland and Northern Ireland. Some of the 52 chemical standards are more stringent
than those set in the 1980 Directive and a legal obligation is placed on water undertakers
to supply wholesome water as defined under the Regulations. New UK Regulations will be
enacted as soon as the 1998 Directive is transposed into national law at the end of
December 2000.
   In the USA, drinking water quality regulations were mandated by law under the Safe
Drinking Water Act of 1974. The most recent amendments were made in 1996, with
Maximum Contaminant Levels specified for a wide range parameters. Many of the
regulations have been promulgated as rules, for examples the Lead/Copper Rule and the
Surface Water Treatment Rule. These rules define the practical application of the
standards relating to them and the associated monitoring requirements. The standards are
enforceable by the USEPA and are mandatory on all public water supply undertakings,
except where a State authority grants a 'variance' to a water supply system that cannot
comply because of the characteristics of its water source. Best available technology (BAT)
232    Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

has to be adopted however to treat the water. Good accounts of the EPA Regulations are
given by Pontius. 21


6.48     Comment on the application of standards
Standards for many of the substances listed in Tables 6.1(C) and (D) are derived from
dietary experiments on animals (e.g. rats, mice, etc.). From these the 'no adverse effect
level' (NOEL) of dosage is deduced, to which 'uncertainty factors' are applied which may
vary from 10-2 to 10-4 to allow for species differences, nature and severity of adverse
effects, and the quality of the data. Further factors are then applied to deduce the
acceptable daily intake (ADI) for the average human life span (70 years) adjusted for the
average human body weight (60-70 kg). The ADI is then divided into the estimated
proportion (often as low as 1%) contributed by drinking water as compared to the intake
from food, based on an average daily intake of 2 litres of water.
   No acceptable daily intake is promulgated for carcinogenic or potentially carcinogenic
substances; experimental data are derived from tests to ascertain the effect of such
substances on laboratory animals. Mathematical models are also used to extrapolate the
effect to dose levels low enough to reduce the risk of cancer development in human cells to
an 'acceptable level', such as one case per lifetime per 100 000 individuals. There are
significant problems with both procedures, for example, can limited term tests at high
dosage rates be representative of life-duration ingestion of much smaller quantities; what is
the extrapolation relationship that should be assumed; and what are the effects of
combinations of substances or different forms of a substance.
   The above techniques provide a simplified insight into the procedures used for setting
drinking water quality standards; Fawel122 gives a more scientific account. All the health
related chemical standards listed in Tables 6.1 (B)-(D) have large safety margins built in to
ensure that the results achieved are no worse than those estimated on the basis of an
'acceptable degree of risk'. Failure to comply with a particular chemical standard does not
therefore mean that the water is unsuitable for consumption. As the WHO comments 'The
amount by which, and the period for which any guideline value can be exceeded without
affecting public health depends on the specific substance involved'. The values adopted are
precautionary even when, as in the UK and USEPA Regulations, compliance with them is
a legal requirement.
   The WHO involved over 200 experts from nearly 40 countries in the preparation of the
1993 Guidelines for drinking water quality. The Guidelines are subject to an ongoing
rolling revision, with the highest priority being given to those substances with only
provisional guideline values. The first set of amendments, including revised guide values
for 20 substances, were issued in April 1998. The EC Directive includes a review of the
standards at least every 5 years, 'in the light of scientific and technical progress'. The
USEPA is likewise required to review and revise, as appropriate, each of the National
Primary Drinking Water Regulations (NPDWR) at least every 6 years. The USEPA is also
required to publish a list, and to update it every 5 years, of drinking water contaminants
which are not subject to any proposed or promulgated NPDWR at the time of
publication. This list, known as the Drinking Water Contaminant Candidate List, may
include any chemical (or microbiological) contaminant which is known, or anticipated, to
occur in public water systems. Such contaminants may then become regulated in the
future.
                                 6.50 Sampling for physical and chemical parameters 233


6.49    Standards for raw water classification
An EC Directive of 197523 classified surface waters intended for use for the provision of
drinking water supplies into three categories- A1, A2, and A3, each with a recommended
minimum treatment requirement. The three categories were defined by mandatory
maximum values for 21 physical and chemical parameters and by non-mandatory guide
levels for total and faecal coliforms.
   The faecal coliform guide level maximum numbers per 100 ml were:
9   Category A1, 20;
9   Category A2, 2000;
9   Category A3, 20 000.
Surface water falling short of the mandatory values for Class A3 water was not to be used
for abstraction of drinking water save in exceptional circumstances. These requirements
were reflected in the UK Regulations of 1996 which adopted a similar classification in
relation to only the mandatory physical and chemical parameters. 24
   The WHO issued a more detailed classification of raw waters in 199625 based on the
degree of bacterial pollution of a water. It specified the required degree of treatment
according to levels of faecal contamination. This also ensures that no viruses are present in
drinking water on the basis that adequate disinfection must produce at least 99.99%
reduction of enteric viruses. The classification is given in Table 6.2.
   The raw water classification in Table 6.2 acts as a guide when deciding whether a source
is suitable for public water supply. However in many parts of the world it may be
necessary to take account of other circumstances when deciding what source of water to
use and how to treat it. Consideration must be given to the unlisted or unquantifiable risks
applying to a catchment, such as the desirability of choosing that source which is least
likely to be affected by domestic and industrial wastes, or subject to dangerous accidental
pollution. It is important to provide a palatable and aesthetically acceptable public supply
of water, free of bacteria and objectionable taste and odour (especially chlorinous ones), to
ensure that people use it, especially where there is a risk that otherwise an untreated local
sources of doubtful quality may be used for drinking purposes. However allowances must
still be made for physical and financial constraints which may make it impossible to
provide a water which complies in all respects with the WHO Guidelines or any other
standard. Account may need to be taken of the difficulty of maintaining consistent
treatment and disinfection in the light of resources available and the skills of local labour.


6.50    Sampling for physical and chemical parameters
Sampling frequencies to WHO, EC, UK and USEPA requirements
The WHO Guidelines do not set out recommended sampling frequencies for physical and
chemical parameters but emphasise the need to design a sampling programme for clearly
defined objectives. This should cover both random and systematic variations in water
quality and be representative of the water quality throughout a distribution system. The
frequency of testing must be high enough 'to provide meaningful information while, at the
same time conserving sampling and analytical effort'. The WHO points out that testing for
parameters unlikely to vary in concentration during distribution need only be carried out
on the water going into supply. Other parameters should be sampled at consumers' taps.
234   Chemistry, microbiology and biology o f water


Table 6.2 WHO classification of water sources according to bacterial quality and the recommended
level of treatment

Source                         Level of contamination               Treatment
Ground waters (a)
Protected deep wells           Free of faecal contamination;        Disinfection (c) for distribution
                               E. coli nil per 100 ml (b)           purposes only
                               Evidence of faecal contamination;    Disinfection (c)
                               E. coli 20 per 100 ml
Unprotected ground             Faecal contamination;                Filtration (d) and
water, e.g. shallow wells      E. coli up to 2000 per 100 ml        disinfection (c)
                               Gross faecal contamination;          Not recommended as a water
                               E. coli >2000 per 100 ml             supply source (e)
Surface waters (a)
Protected impounded            Essentially free of faecal           Disinfection (c)
upland water                   contamination;
                               E. coli <20 per 100 ml

Unprotected impounded        Faecal contamination;                  Filtration (d) and
upland water or upland river E. coli 20-2000 per 100 ml             disinfection (c)
 Unprotected lowland river      Faecal contamination;               Long-term storage or
                                E. coli 200-20 000 per 100 ml       pre-disinfection; filtration; (d)
                                                                    additional treatment (f) and
                                                                    disinfection (c)

Notes to Table 6.2
(a) If the sources are contaminated with Giardia cysts or Cryptosporidium cysts, they must be treated
by processes additional to disinfection (see Section 7.43).
(b) Water must comply with the WHO guideline criteria for pH, turbidity, bacteriological and
parasitological quality.
(c) WHO conditions for final disinfection must be satisfied (see Section 9.6).
(d) Filtration must be either rapid gravity (or pressure) preceded by coagulation-flocculation and
where necessary clarification or slow-sand filtration. The degree of virus reduction must be >90%.
(e) Water from these sources should be used only if no higher quality sources is available. Drinking
water from such sources carries a risk of inadequate virological quality.
(f) Additional treatment may consist of slow sand filtration, ozonation with granular activated
carbon absorption or other processes demonstrated to achieve >99% virus reduction.


  The EC Directive sets out a minimum frequency of sampling and analysis based on the
volume of water distributed each day within a supply zone. Where water is supplied via a
distribution system, the point of compliance is deemed to be the point within a building
where drinking water is normally made available to consumers. Member States are
required to establish appropriate monitoring programmes to meet these m i n i m u m
requirements.
   Under the current U K Water Supply (Water Quality) Regulations 1989, and subsequent
amendments, the only chemical monitoring specified for water treatment works and
service reservoir is residual disinfectant. In order to monitor the chemical quality of water
in public supplies, water undertakings in England and Wales are required to divide their
distribution systems for sampling purposes into water supply zones of not more than
                                  6.50 Sampl&g for physical and chemical parameters      235


50 000 population. A minimum sampling frequency is then specified for each parameter
for which there is a standard. Samples have to be taken from point at which the water
becomes available to the consumer, which is usually taken to be the kitchen tap. Most
sample points are randomly selected although some samples may taken from fixed sample
points which are predetermined and chosen in such a way as to be representative of the
quality of water in the zone as a whole. All sampling points for copper, zinc and lead have
to be selected at random, with the sample being taken as the first draw of water from the
tap.
   The USEPA sampling requirements are equally complex. They vary with the parameter
to be monitored; the type of source used; and whether the source is defined as 'vulnerable'
or 'non-vulnerable' to specific substances. Parameters with secondary maximum
contaminant levels (SMCLs) are required to be monitored at intervals no less frequently
than those for inorganic chemical contaminants. Monitoring is also required for many
chemical contaminants for which final standards have yet to be set.


Minimum sampling requirements where no regulations apply
In countries where there are no legal requirements for sampling, the following regime
would provide an adequate minimum level of monitoring, linked with the priorities
suggested in Section 6.51:
   Simple chemical tests should be carried out daily on the raw water and also the treated
water leaving the water treatment works. Samples should also be taken at least weekly at
consumers' taps. The tests should be for the more easily measurable but important
parameters such as colour, taste, odour, turbidity, pH, conductivity, and chlorine residual
in the case of treated waters. Other parameters might be included in respect of a particular
source or situation. Among these might be chlorides to test for salt-water intrusion; nitrate
and ammonia to indicate pollution; iron or lead in special cases; and residual coagulant
and hardness for checking treatment performance.
   Full chemical analyses should be carried out, including tests for toxic substances, on any
raw water sources to be used for new supplies; whenever treatment processes are being
altered; and when new sources of pollution are suspected. Routine samples for full
chemical analysis of water in the distribution system should be taken quarterly, 6-monthly,
or yearly, depending on the size of the population supplied. Checking for the presence of
substances of health significance, for example trihalomethanes, pesticides, PAH, and the
heavy metals, may need to be more frequent if they are a cause for concern.


Sampling techniques for physical and chemical parameters
It is of paramount importance that correct procedures are followed when taking water
samples to ensure that the samples are representative. Whenever possible samples should
be taken by trained and experienced personnel using dedicated sampling bottles and
equipment.
   Methods of sampling for chemical parameters are fully documented in a series of UK
publications under the title of Methods for the Examination of Waters and Associated
Materials. 26 Another useful publication is Standard Methods for the Physical and
Chemical Examination of Water and Wastewaters, 27 jointly produced by the American
Water Works Association, the American Public Health Association and the American
236   Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

Water Pollution Control Federation. Most water companies in the UK have produced
their own sampling manuals based on these publications.

On-site testing and field analysis
It is desirable that analysis for some parameters, such as temperature, pH value and
residual disinfectant, is carried out at the time of sampling as significant changes may
occur over even short time periods. Other parameters requiring on-site measurement
include redox potential, dissolved oxygen and carbon dioxide. These are particularly
important for groundwater samples where there can be a rapid change in concentration (or
value) due to pressure changes as the sample is taken. The loss of carbon dioxide from a
deep borehole sample will result in an increase of pH and, if present, soluble iron and
manganese can precipitate out as the water comes into contact with atmospheric oxygen.
Special sampling techniques are required in such situations.
   Under some circumstances it may be necessary to carry out a more comprehensive
analysis in the field, especially if the site is remote and without ready access to a
laboratory. There are numerous test kits available for field analysis, covering a wide range
of parameters, and varying greatly in complexity and accuracy (see Plate 18). The simplest
are 'test strips' which are dipped into the water sample. The intensity of the subsequent
colour development is then compared against a strip of standard colours for specific
concentrations of the parameter under test. These provide a fairly crude but objective
result. There is a wide range of pre-calibrated test discs also available for monitoring most
of the common water quality parameters. Reagents, usually in tablet form, are added to a
standard volume of sample contained in a glass sample cell. The resultant colour
development is compared visually against a blank sample, using a test disc in the
appropriate range of concentration. Most of these test kits are user friendly and can be
used with minimal training. However the results should always be treated with a degree of
caution, as they involve visual comparisons. It is also advisable to introduce an element of
analytical quality control, as far as is practicable, to such systems, especially if the results
are intended for regulatory reporting.
   A broad range of parameters can be monitored in the field by means of electronic
meters, for example for pH value, redox, dissolved oxygen, turbidity, and temperature.
Multi-parameter meters are also available which can measure a number of parameters
with a single instrument. Such instruments are available with an integral data logging
system and are extremely useful for continuous monitoring surveys. Comprehensive 'field
laboratories' are also commercially available. These typically provide reagents and
apparatus for measuring single parameters, such as residual chlorine, or multiple para-
meters within a single unit. A pre-calibrated spectrophotometer is used for colorimetric
tests, with electronic meters for pH and conductivity, and a digital titration system for
parameters such as hardness and chloride. A higher level of skill is required to operate
such instruments and a higher degree of analytical quality control should be applied to
ensure the validity of the results.

Water quality monitoring at treatment works
On-line monitoring systems can be used to check the quality of the raw water and the final
treated water as it leaves a water treatment works. Monitoring of the raw water is of first
importance, especially if the source is of variable quality, although devising a reliable
                                                6.51 Priorities in water quality control   237


system can pose problems. It is impossible to monitor for all potentially harmful
substances, so surrogates are used which can indicate changes in the concentration of the
parameters of importance. One such surrogate is conductivity but this only indicates
changes in the dissolved salts present in the water and is unlikely to reveal the presence of a
toxic pollutant. A method with wider potential is a fish tank supplied continuously with
the water being monitored, with the death of any of the fish in the tank indicating possible
pollution. In a more sophisticated and reliable version of the fish tank, the gill movement
or electrical responses of a number of fish are continuously monitored. Organic monitors
that detect changes in the absorbance of the raw water at a specific ultra violet frequency
provide another alternative. A range of raw water monitoring devices tend to be used at
larger treatment works, especially if the raw water is abstracted directly from a river or
canal source since these are most likely to experience sudden and dramatic changes in
water quality or intermittent pollution (see Section 7.1). Bankside storage provides some
guarantee of the raw water quality and helps to even out fluctuations. Ideally such storage
should be divided into at least two compartments so that the raw water in each can be
tested alternately before being drawn upon for treatment and supply, Distant monitoring
of water quality upstream of an intake is also very frequently adopted.
   On line monitoring systems are widely used to check the efficacy of the clarification and
filtration processes at a treatment works and to ensure that the clarity and pH value of the
filtered water meet the requirements for final disinfection (see Section 9.6). On line
monitoring systems are also widely used for checking the residual disinfectant level and pH
value of treated waters entering supply.


6.51     Priorities in w a t e r quality control
In some parts of the world, the availability of well equipped laboratories and resources for
water quality testing can be very limited for many water undertakings. The level of testing
in such circumstances must concentrate on the most essential parameters. The following is
a suggested list of priorities in testing which, for the sake of completeness, includes
bacteriological testing as defined in Sections 6.62 and 6.65 below.

Simple checks at source works
Twice daily checks should be carried out on chlorine dosage rate and the residual chlorine
content of water entering supply.
   Daily measurements on samples of raw and treated water should be carried out for
turbidity; colour; odour; conductivity; and pH value.
  Where coagulation, clarification and filtration are applied, daily checks should also be
carried out on dosages of coagulants, and the pH and turbidity of the water ex clarifiers
and ex filters.

Bacteriological testing (see Section 6.62)
Where possible, analysis for total and faecal coliforms should be carried out at least
weekly on samples the treated water leaving a water treatment works. Samples of raw
water and samples from the distribution system should be analysed monthly. Every effort
should be made to meet the foregoing frequencies as a minimum, but, where they cannot
be met, resources should be directed towards determining coliform counts in the treated
238    Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

water ex works. If no suitable laboratory for bacteriological analyses is available,
consideration should be given to on-site testing by a trained operative visiting works on a
routine basis. Portable test kits are available using filter membranes techniques, as
illustrated in Plate 18, as are a number of test kits which determine whether an indicator
organism is simply present or absent in 100 ml of sample.


Chemical testing
At all sources, chemical analyses covering the most important parameters of a given raw
water should be conducted at least twice a year, at appropriate times, e.g. following the
onset of heavy rainfall after prolonged dry weather. These should normally be
accompanied by bacteriological analyses.


Source watch
A complete survey of the catchment to a new source should be undertaken, mapping and
noting all potential sources of pollution, before the source is brought into use. Subsequent
regular catchment surveys should note any changes. Sources of pollution closest to an
intake, if they cannot be diverted, should be kept under frequent observation. Where
chemical tests show toxic substances are present in a raw water, their source should be
traced and if possible eliminated. If the latter is not possible, additional monitoring must
be set up for such substances in both the raw and the treated water. The use of waters
having consistently high coliform counts, or dangerously sited with respect to any waste
discharge, should be avoided if at all possible.
   In general a given raw water tends to have characteristics which normally range only
between certain high and low values, often according to rainfall or other seasonal
conditions. As soon as sufficient bacteriological and chemical data have been obtained to
establish this usual range and the appropriate treatment has been adopted, routine testing
can concentrate on monitoring the parameter or parameters which are most likely to
indicate any abnormal change of quality. However routine bacteriological testing of the
treated water leaving the treatment works should always be carried at an acceptable
frequency to ensure that the treatment processes and, in particular, the disinfection process
has not been compromised.


6.52     Methods of chemical analysis
It is important that methods of analysis should be standardised in order to achieve
comparability of results. In 1972 in the UK, the then Department of the Environment
established the Standing Committee of Analysts to set up working groups to produce
suitable methods for water analysis. The committee, which now comes under aegis the
Environment Agency, represents a wide range of interests in the water industry and has
produced detailed guidance in a series of publications under the title of Methods for the
Examination of Waters and Associated Materials. 26 Each publication looks at a single
analytical method or linked group of methods. Another useful publication is Standard
Methods for the Physical and Chemical Examination of Water and Wastewaters. 27 This
comprehensive book, which is updated at regular intervals, provides a valuable reference
and the methods described in it have had a wide influence on standards adopted in other
       6.53 UK standards applying to use of chemicals and materials & water supply      239


countries. Field Testing of Water in Developing Countries by Hutton 28 provides further
useful reference.
   All analytical methods for chemical parameters should be fully evaluated and validated
by the laboratory carrying out the tests before the method is adopted for routine use. The
initial performance tests should demonstrate that the analytical system is capable of
establishing, within acceptable limits of deviation and detection, whether any sample
contains the parameter under analysis at concentrations likely to contravene the required
standard. Such performance testing should cover the entire analytical procedure, including
sample preparation and any concentration steps. The precision and accuracy of the test in
terms of maximum tolerable values for total error and systematic error and limit of
detection should be ascertained, along with checks for recovery and 'resilience against
possible interferences. The required performance characteristics for chemical parameters
are specified both in the EC Directive and the US National Primary Drinking Water
Regulations. In the UK, guidance on analytical systems has been issued in the DoE
publication on Guidance on Safeguarding the Quality of Public Water Supplies 9 and in
subsequent information letters sent by the Drinking Water Inspectorate to water
undertakers in England and Wales. It is recognised that the required level of performance
can not always be met with the current methods of analysis available for some of the more
obscure organic parameters.
   The laboratory should also have established and documented procedures for routine
analytical quality control as applied to each validated method. External quality control
schemes or interlaboratory proficiency testing schemes, where available, provide further
useful information on a laboratory's capabilities for carrying out an acceptable level of
analysis.
   Under the US National Primary Drinking Water Regulations all analyses, other than
turbidity, chlorine residual, temperature and pH, have to be carried out by a certified
laboratory. In England and Wales, water undertakings are expected to use suitably third
party accredited laboratories or have their laboratories inspected annually by the Drinking
Water Inspectorate.


6.53    UK standards applying to use of chemicals and materials in
        water supply
Under the Water Supply (Water Quality) Regulations 1989, all chemicals used in water
treatment and materials which come in contact with water (such as pipe linings, etc.) are
subject to approval by the Secretary of State. Similar provisions are contained within the
Scottish and Northern Ireland Regulations. An annual list is published under the auspices
of the Drinking Water Inspectorate, giving all substances, products and processes for
which approval has been granted, refused, revoked or modified or for which use has been
prohibited. The current list, 29 which is available on the Internet (www.dwi.detr.gov.uk),
includes over 800 proprietary products and materials covering flocculants and coagulants,
adsorbents; disinfectants; other chemicals; ion exchange resins; pipes; filters and
membrane systems; linings and coatings; cementitious and associated products; products
for emergency use and products based on traditional chemicals. All the products are
identified by trade name, grade, and manufacturer. Maximum permissible dosages are
stipulated for most proprietary products, together with other conditions of use as
appropriate. The list also includes a section on traditional chemicals and filtration media,
240    Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

which are commonly used in water treatment and are considered to be unobjectionable on
health grounds provided they are used in accordance with the manufacturers' instructions.
  A number of European standards for water treatment chemicals have been produced as
part of a harmonisation approach for European legislation. Chemicals meeting these
standards may be used in the UK without approval from the Secretary of State, provided
any national conditions of use are observed.


                            Part III Water microbiology
6.54     Diseases in humans which may be caused by water-borne
         bacteria and other organisms
Water-borne diseases in humans can be caused by the presence of pathogenic bacteria and
other organisms such as protozoa and viruses in drinking water supplies, in water used for
bathing or immersion sports, or via other routes. It has long been recognised that the
ingestion of water contaminated with mammalian excrement can result in the spread of
diseases such as cholera and typhoid and that adequate treatment and other measures are
required to prevent outbreaks of such diseases. The WHO Guidelines state that 'The
potential consequences of microbial contamination are such that its control must always
be of paramount importance and must never be compromised'.
   The following sections look at some of the classical intestinal diseases which are
commonly, although not always invariably, water-borne. In all cases the associated
organisms are present in large numbers in the excreta of an infected host and are relatively
resistant to environmental decay. Many are likely to cause illness even when ingested in
small numbers. Schistosomiasis and other parasitic diseases of the tropics are reviewed as
part of water biology in Part IV.


6.55     Bacterial diseases
Cholera is caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae and its variant Eltor vibrio. Infection is
usually contracted by ingestion of water contaminated by infected human faecal material,
but contaminated food and person to person contact may also be sources. In recent years
cholera has moved from the Far East to the Near East, Africa, and southern Europe, and
could enter Britain and other European countries through carriers or by individuals who
are in the incubation period of the disease. It is not likely to spread in communities with
controlled water supplies and effective sewerage. However shellfish inhabiting polluted
seawater and eaten uncooked or inadequately cooked, can carry the bacterium (and also
the virus of hepatitis) and lead to serious outbreaks.
   Typhoid fever is caused by the bacterium Salmonella typhi. Infection is usually
contracted by ingestion of material contaminated by human faeces or urine, including
water and food (e.g. milk, shellfish) Salm. typhi occasionally continues to proliferate in the
gall bladder of a few patients who have recovered from the primary infection, and these
carriers continue to excrete the organisms in their faeces or, occasionally, in their urine for
long periods, even for life.
   The largest water-borne outbreak of typhoid fever in Britain this century occurred in
Croydon in 1937 and killed 43 people. It was investigated by Suckling 3~ who found that it
was caused by a combination of circumstances including a person who was a carrier of
                                                               6.55 Bacterial diseases 241

 Salm. typhi working down a well, which was pumping into supply, coincidental with the
filtration and chlorinating plants being bypassed. There have been a number of more
recent outbreaks, which are believed to have been due to water contamination coinciding
with inadequate disinfection. Paratyphoid fevers are also caused by Salmonella, in this case
paratyphi A, B, or C. Infection may exceptionally be via contaminated water.
    Bacillary dysentery is caused by bacteria of the genus Shigella- Sh. dysenteriae 1, Sh.
flexneri, Sh. boydii and Sh. sonnei are some of the several subspecies. Infection can
 occasionally be contracted via water contaminated by human faeces, but more commonly
 is due to ingestion of food contaminated by flies or by unhygienic food handlers who are
carriers. The cause of Traveller's diarrhoea is not definitely known, but it may be some
 forms of pathogenic Escherichia coli or, rarely, Shigella. It is probably transmitted in the
 same way as bacillary dysentery and water may sometimes be the vehicle. The problems
 associated with enterovirulent E. coli are reviewed in Part V (see Section 6.76).
    Leptospirosis is caused by very numerous serogroups of the motile, spiral organisms
known as Leptospira, with symptoms ranging from mild fever to severe jaundice in the
case of Weils' disease. The organisms are shed in the urine of infected rats, dogs, pigs, and
 other vertebrates, and are often present in ponds and slow-flowing streams haunted by
 such animals. People who bathe in, fish in, or sail on these waters are at risk, becoming
infected via the mouth, nasal passages, conjunctiva, or abraded skin through which the
 organisms can enter. Normal water treatment eliminates these organisms but sewer
workers remain at risk from rat infections.
    Legionnaire's disease is caused by bacteria of the genus Legionella, of which some 20
 species have been identified. 31 The bacterium L. pneumophila is regarded as the most
 dangerous, having been identified in all outbreaks of Legionnaire's disease. Outbreaks of
 the disease can be sudden and exhibit a high mortality. (The name comes from an
 outbreak of the disease causing a high mortality in war veterans attending a Legion
 Convention in Philadelphia, USA in 1976.) Legionella organisms are widely present in
small numbers in surface waters and possibly also in groundwaters. They may survive
conventional water treatment, including disinfection with chlorine, and retain an ability to
colonise internal pipe surfaces. They are thermo-tolerant and ideally suited to grow in the
warm water systems of buildings at 30-45~ However they do not survive sustained
temperatures above 60~ Infection occurs from the transport of the bacterium by aerosols
or air-borne water droplets, which are inhaled; there is no evidence of transmission by
ingestion so infection is not attributable directly to drinking water supplies. Most
outbreaks of Legionnaire's disease have been caused by droplets blown from exposed
cooling towers of air-conditioning plants at hotels, hospitals, and similar large buildings.
Other sources such as whirlpools and Jacuzzis, where recirculated warm water is sprayed,
have been implicated in outbreaks of the disease.
    Preventive measures include designing and maintaining water systems in buildings to
minimise the risk of colonisation; minimising the accumulation of sediments and slimes;
and maintaining hot water systems above 60~ and cold water systems below 20~
Official advice is available concerning the measures to be taken. 32'33 It should be noted
that biocides are generally less effective in controlling Legionella in water distribution
systems within buildings but are effective in air conditioning systems using wet evaporative
cooling towers.
    Campylobacteriosis is caused by bacteria associated with the excrement from wild fowl.
There are 14 species of the bacteria, some of which are pathogenic to man causing gastro-
242    Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

intestinal illness. Campylobacters are frequently found in sewage and have been detected in
surface waters, where they can survive for several weeks at cold temperatures. There have
been a number of reported outbreaks of associated with unchlorinated or inadequately
chlorinated surface water supplies or with contaminated storage facilities.


6.56     Other bacteria
The Pseudomonas group is commonly found throughout the environment. They may be
present in human and animal excrement and can also multiple in water containing suitable
nutrients. Their subsequent growth, if present in drinking water, may also result in an
overall deterioration in the microbiological quality and lead to consumer complaints of
taste and odour. Ps. aeroginosa is an opportunist pathogen, that is, it can cause infection
in people whose natural defence mechanisms may be impaired, for example the very old,
the very young or the immuno suppressed. Other pseudomonads may produce undesirable
slimes within the distribution system.
   The Aeromonas group is also naturally present in the aquatic environment. Their
presence in drinking water does not necessarily indicate faecal pollution but highlights
possible inadequacies in the treatment process or ingress within the distribution system.
The number of such organisms likely to be found in a distribution system will depend on
the residence time of the water, its organic content and the residual chlorine level.


6.57     Protozoal diseases
Amoebic dysentery is caused by the microscopic parasite Entamoeba histolytica. The
parasite is distributed throughout the world and exists in two stages, only one of which,
the cyst, is infective. The parasite infects mainly primates and, following infection, resides
in the large intestine in humans where it produces further cysts, which are passed in the
faeces. Infection takes place by ingestion of these cysts, which range in size from 10 to
20 #m. They can survive for several days in water at temperatures of up to 30~ and are
resistant to chlorine.
   Outbreaks can occur if water supplies are contaminated with domestic sewage
containing viable cysts. More commonly the disease is transmitted by person-to-person
contact or via food contaminated by carriers. Most infections tend to cause only minor
symptoms, although liver abscess can be a serious sequela.
   Cryptosporidiosis is an acute self-limiting diarrhoeal disease caused by the parasite
Cryptosporidium parvum, which infects domestic and farm animals as well as humans. The
normal routes of exposure are via direct contact with infected animals or humans or via
contaminated water or food. Not all infected individuals necessarily develop the symptoms
of the disease but the illness is likely to be serious or even life-threatening for patients who
are immunologically compromised. 34
   The parasite has a complex life cycle, which takes place within the body of the host and
can include repeated cycles of autoinfection. Infective oocysts of the parasite, which are 4-
6 #m in diameter, are then shed in vast numbers in the faeces of infected animals and
humans. These oocysts are often found in surface waters, particularly in areas associated
with intensive animal grazing, and are also found occasionally in some groundwater
sources. Treated sewage effluent can, on occasion, also contain large numbers. The oocysts
can remain infective in water and moist environments for several months and are resistant
                                                                 6.57 Protozoal diseases 243

to high concentrations of chlorine (see Section 9.6). The latter, coupled with the small size
of the oocysts, can result in low numbers of oocysts occasionally penetrating conventional
public water supply treatment processes. In recent years there has been an increasing
number outbreaks of cryptosporidiosis in both the UK and North America where there
has been a causal link with drinking water supplies. Following an outbreak in Swindon
and Oxfordshire during the winter of 1988-89, an expert committee was set up by the
Department of the Environment and the Department of Health, under the chairmanship
of Sir John Badenoch, to examine the problem. Its report, known as the Badenoch
Report 35 and published in 1990, made many recommendations concerning water treat-
ment practices, monitoring and also the role of the various authorities in the event of a
suspected waterborne outbreak. The Group of Experts produced further guidance in a
second report issued in October 1995.36 Following an outbreak of cryptosporidiosis in
North London in 1997 in which groundwater was implicated, a new Expert Group was
convened under Professor Ian Bouchier to review current concerns and practices. The
report of their findings was published in November 1998.37 Ongoing research is also being
carried out into methods for assessing oocyst viability and infectivity; the life cycle of the
organism; easier means of determining the presence of the oocyst in water; the infective
dose; treatment processes to reduce the number of oocyst likely to get into supplies; and
different disinfection processes.
   Following the third report of the Group of Experts, new regulations on Cryptosporidium
were introduced in England and Wales on 30 June 199938 (see Section 7.43). Under these
regulations water companies are required to carry out a detail risk assessment at all water
treatment sites. They are then required to install continuous sampling at those sites
considered to be at risk and carry out daily analysis of the samples. The sample typically
equates to one cubic metre of treated water filtered through a special filter over a 24-hour
period. The treatment works so sampled will have to meet a treatment standard of an
average of less than one oocyst in ten litres of water leaving the works. It will be an offence
if the standard is breached and/or if the sampling and analysis requirements are not met.
   The US National Primary Drinking Water Regulations specifies the level of monitoring
required for Cryptosporidium for public water systems and, under the Interim Enhanced
Surface Water Treatment rule, sets a maximum contaminant level goal of zero. The EPA is
also considering requiring public water systems to monitor their source waters for
Cryptosporidium and Giardia to determine appropriate levels of treatment.
   Giardiasis is another diarrhoeal disease caused by a protozoal parasite, namely Giardia
lamblia (or intestinalis). Like cryptosporidiosis, the disease is self-limiting and is caused by
the ingestion of cysts by a susceptible host. The normal routes of exposure are via direct
contact with infected animals or humans, or via contaminated water or food. Infected
animals can contaminate surface waters and, in North America, beavers are frequently
blamed for associated outbreaks. The cysts are larger than Cryptosporidium oocysts, being
7-10 #m wide and 8-12 #m long, and can survive for many days in a cool aqueous
environment. Being larger, the cysts are effectively removed from drinking water by
physical methods of treatment, such as filtration. They are also much more susceptible to
disinfection than Cryptosporidium.
   Giardiasis is a world-wide disease and there have been a number of reported waterborne
outbreaks in the USA. Evidence of waterborne infection in the UK has been confined to
situations where there has been direct faecal contamination of water used for drinking,
such as holiday makers drinking untreated private supplies.
244    Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

   The USEPA has promulgated criteria under which filtration is required as part of the
treatment for surface waters under the Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule, with an
effective standard of zero for Giardia where such treatment is applied.


6.58     Viral diseases
Viruses differ from bacteria in that they are very much smaller and can multiply only
within suitable host cells, in which they produce changes which give rise to a range of
diseases. More than one hundred different types of virus have been identified in faeces and
the main sources of human enteric viruses in the aquatic environment are sewage
discharges. Little direct information is available on the removal of viruses by water
treatment processes but information gained using cultured viruses indicates that the water
treatment processes required for Category A2 and A3 waters (see Section 6.49) will, if
applied properly, produce effectively virus-free drinking water. The main areas of risk then
become the use of sewage polluted waters for recreational purposes or the recycling of
wastewater for domestic use without adequate treatment and disinfection.
   Human polioviruses which cause Poliomyelitis can be found in untreated sewage and
even in the effluent from sewage disposal units. Like other viruses, they do not multiply in
the absence of living cells and although there have been a few reports of water-borne
infection there has been little confirmation.
   The viruses associated with Hepatitis A and E have been detected in sewage and polluted
rivers. Several large outbreaks of drinking water transmitted Hepatitis have been reported,
usually where water treatment has broken down; where the distribution system has been
disturbed; or where badly constructed wells have been contaminated from adjacent
cesspits or as a result of heavy rainfall.
   Other enteric viruses that are emerging as important risks in the transmission of
waterborne viral diseases are reviewed in Part V.


6.59     Microbiological standards for drinking water
Pathogenic bacteria and other organisms are usually difficult to detect in an effectively
treated water supply because, if present, their numbers are likely to be very small. Their
presence even in sewage effluent or polluted river water may be only infrequent or at
irregular intervals, depending on the level and source of contamination. Analysing directly
for pathogenic bacteria is not therefore a practical safeguard for a water supply and,
indeed, routine monitoring for process control purposes would be both impracticable and
unnecessary. Instead, evidence of any pollution by the excreta of man or animals should
always be sought and, if the evidence is positive, it should be assumed the water may also
contain pathogenic bacteria and must therefore be regarded as unsuitable for supply
purposes.


6.60     Use of coliforms as an indicator of bacteriological pollution
Coliform bacteria are widespread throughout the environment and have long been used as
indicator organisms by water microbiologists because of their relatively simple analysis
and detection at low numbers. The group contains species which can multiple in water but
which are not of faecal origin. The group also contains species that are referred to as
                                                    6.61 Standards of bacterial quality   245


'thermotolerant (faecal) coliforms' of which the bacterium E. coli is one. This is a natural
inhabitant of the intestine and is present in large numbers in the faeces of man and other
warm blooded animals, and also of fish and birds. Such bacteria can survive for a
considerable time in water, longer than most pathogenic bacteria. Thus the detection of E.
coli in drinking water supplies provides clear evidence of faecal pollution. If coliform
organisms are detected, but no E. coli, the probability is that the pollution is via soil or
vegetable contamination, or possibly a warning that more serious pollution could follow,
especially after heavy rain. However the presence of any coliform bacteria in treated water
indicates either deficiencies in the treatment process or some form of post treatment
contamination and should be investigated immediately.
   Although the absence of coliform organisms, and more particularly E. coli, implies that
a water is unlikely to be polluted, it cannot be guaranteed absolutely that no other
intestinal pathogens are present. This is because other pathogens such as viruses and
protozoa, although less likely to be present, are likely to be more resistant to disinfection.


6.61    Standards of bacterial quality
Table 6.3 sets out the WHO guidelines, the current UK standards, the EC standards and
the USEPA standards for bacterial quality. Coliforms should not be detected in the water
leaving a water treatment works provided the treatment processes and, in particular, the
disinfection process are adequate. The principal common requirements of all the standards
for drinking water at the consumer's tap are:
9   no faecal coliforms detected in 100 ml of sample; and
9   95% of 100 ml samples must not show the presence of coliform organisms.
Both these standards should be rigorously adhered to. Depending on the quality of the
source water and the type of treatment adopted, biofilms may develop within the
distribution system and give rise to occasional failures for total coliforms at service
reservoirs and at consumer's taps. If a positive result is obtained, the number of organisms
present should always be very low and shown to be non-faecal. All such failures should be
investigated immediately and the need for corrective action, such as increasing the chlorine
residual by booster chlorination, assessed. Immediate action should also be taken in the
event of even a single faecal coliform (or E. coli) being detected in a 100 ml sample. Action
should always be taken on the presumptive result, even if this does not subsequently
confirm, and repeat samples should also be taken immediately both from the affected tap
and from at least two other taps in the adjacent area.
   Standards of bacteriological testing can vary in different parts of the world.
Terminology is often inconsistent and confusing, with the same term being used to
cover one test procedure in one country and a different test procedure in another. In hot
climates many waters give total bacterial counts substantially higher than in temperate
climates, and certain types of organisms may be more abundant. It is sometimes difficult
for the engineer to interpret bacterial test results and the advice of an experienced water
bacteriologist should always be sought in obtaining a definitive interpretation.
   In addition to specific bacteriological standards the current U K Regulations contain a
'catch-all' clause that water supplied for drinking, washing or cooking, or for food
production, must not contain any organism at a concentration which would be
detrimental to public health.
Table 6.3   Bacterial standards

                                  Colonies/ml          Colonies/ml          Total                  Faecal             Faecal         Clostridia
                                  at 22~               at 37~               coliforms              coliforms          Streptococci
 WHO Guidelines 1993
Water entering the                                                          ND in 100 ml           ND in 100 ml (a)
distribution system
Water in the                                                                ND in 100 ml (b)       ND in 100 ml (a)
distribution system
All water intended                                                                                 Not detected
for drinking
Current UK Regulations (1989)
Water leaving a water             No significant       No significant       0/100 ml               0/100 ml           O/1 O0 ml      _<1/20 ml (d)
treatment works                   increase over that   increase over that
                                  normally observed    normally observed
Water in service reservoirs       No significant       No significant       O/1O0 ml (c)           0/100 ml           0/100 ml       _<1/20 ml (d)
                                  increase over that   increase over that
                                  normally observed    normally observed
Water at consumers' taps          No significant       No significant       0/100 ml (c)           0/100 ml           0/100 ml       _<1/20 ml (d)
                                  increase over that   increase over that
                                  normally observed    normally observed
EC Directive (1998)
Water at the point of                                                                              0/100 ml (e)       0/100 ml (f)   0/100 ml (g)
supply
USEPA
At sites representative of        Treatment            Treatment            0/100 ml (MCLG)        (h)
the water throughout the          requirement          requirement          0/100 ml <5%
distribution system               to be met            to be met            of samples (MCL) (i)
Notes.
ND - Not detected.
M C L - Maximum contaminant level (US, mandatory).
M C L G - Maximum contaminant level goal (US, not mandatory).
(a) E. coli or thermotolerant coliform bacteria.
(b) In the case of large supplies, where sufficient samples are examined, not present in 95% of samples taken over 12 months.
(c) 95% of the last 50 samples taken must meet the standard.
(d) Analysis by multiple tube method.
(e) E. coli.
(f) Entercocci.
(g) Clostridium perfringens in surface derived waters.
(h) Total coliforms includes E. coli and faecal coliforms.
(i) For a system, which collects at least 40 samples per month, total coliforms should not be present in more than 5 % of samples collected in a month.
Where fewer than 40 samples per month are collected, no more than one sample per month should contain total coliforms.
248    Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

  The EC Directive sets bacterial standards for water offered for sale in bottles and
containers. These are more stringent than the standards for tap water and include
numerical standards for colony counts and Pseudomonas aeroginosa as well as the above
faecal indicators.


6.62     Routine tests for bacterial c o n t a m i n a t i o n of w a t e r
The rationale for routine bacteriological monitoring usually includes the following tests.

Colony counts at 20-22~ and 37~
Large numbers of micro-organisms occur naturally in both ground and surface waters,
many of which are associated with soil and vegetation and can survive for long periods in
the environment. Counts of such organisms, grown as colonies on nutrient agar, provide a
useful means of assessing the general bacterial content of a water. The colony count, or
plate count, following incubation at 20-22~ gives an indication of the number of all types
of bacteria present at normal environmental temperatures. Although the result does not
have any direct health significance, it provides a useful means of assessing the efficacy of
the various water treatment processes in terms of overall bacterial removal. It also gives an
indication of the general bacteriological state of a given distribution system. Incubation at
the higher 37~ temperature encourages the growth of bacteria that can thrive at body
temperature and which, therefore, may be of animal origin. The main value of both tests is
to provide a reference background level for a particular source water, treatment works or
distribution system. A sudden marked increase, particularly in the 37~ count, could be
indicative of treatment deficiencies or of a more serious problem developing. Marked
changes over and above the normal seasonal trends for colony counts at both
temperatures could indicate longer term changes in the bacteriological quality of the
water. The counts are also of value where the water is used in the manufacture of food and
drink as they could be an indication of a potential spoilage problem.

Total coliform count
As already discussed in Section 6.60, coliform organisms are easy to detect in water and
also easy to enumerate. The term 'total coliforms' traditionally refers to bacteria capable
of growing at 37~ in the presence of bile salts and of fermenting lactose at this
temperature, producing acid and gas after 24-48 hours incubation. The bacteria are also
oxidase-negative and non-spore forming. Under normal laboratory test conditions a
'presumptive' result is available after some 20 hours of incubation and further tests are
then carried out to confirm the result. With the advent of a number of rapid and direct test
methods, the traditional definition has been extended to include the possession of the/3-
galactosidase gene.

Faecal coliform count
Coliforms of faecal origin, including E. coli, and thermotolerant coliform organisms are
capable of growth and of expressing their fermentation properties at the higher
temperature of 44~ As with total coliforms, a 'presumptive' result is available after
some 20 hours of incubation, with the need for subsequent confirmation. Specific
                           6.63 Frequency of sampling for bacteriological monitoring 249

confirmation for E. coli includes the production of indole from tryptophan. A number of
confirmatory test kits are commercially available.
  The detection of E. coli provides a reliable indicator of recent faecal contamination. The
presence of other thermotolerant coliforms, particularly when detected in warmer tropical
or sub-tropical waters, provides a less reliable indication of such contamination. However
for most routine monitoring purposes there is an acceptable correlation between E. coli
and faecal coliforms, as defined by thermotolerance.

Other tests
Tests for faecal streptococci and sulphite reducing clostridia can be used as secondary
indicators of faecal pollution. As such, they would not normally be included in routine
monitoring but would be undertaken whenever there is a need to confirm a problem.
   The test for faecal streptococci can be used to assess the significance of coliform
organisms in the absence of confirmed E. coli, as the organisms, although rarely
multiplying in polluted water, are more persistent than E. coli. The ratio between the
numbers of faecal coliforms and faecal streptococci present may also provide some
indication as to whether the source of the contamination is human or animal, although
careful interpretation of any such ratios is necessary. Even then the outcome may be
unreliable.
   The presence of spore-forming, sulphite-reducing anaerobes, such as Clostridium
perfringens (C. welchii) is also associated with faecal contamination. The presence of such
organisms, especially in well or borehole supplies, can indicate remote or intermittent
contamination. The presence of C. perfringens in a filtered water may indicate deficiencies
in the filtration process and, as such, may indicate the breakthrough of protozoan cysts
such as Cryptosporidium.


6.63 Frequency of sampling for bacteriological monitoring
The minimum U K requirements for testing samples of water for total and faecal coliforms
and residual chlorine, as set out in the Water Supply (Water Quality) Regulations 1989
and subsequent amendments, are as follows.

Water leaving a water 52 samples per annum for <2000 m3/day of water supplied for domestic
treatment works       purposes
                      104 samples for 2001-6000 m3/day output
                      208 samples for 6001-12 000 m3/day output
                      365 samples for > 12 000 m3/day output, as a minimum standard
                      number
Water leaving service Weekly sampling of each service reservoir when in supply
reservoirs
Water at consumers' 12 samples per annum for <5000 poPUlation supplied
taps (50% of sample 24 samples for 5001-10 000 population
points to be selected 48 samples for 10 001-20 000 population
at random)            plus 12 samples for every additional 5000 population supplied to a
                      maximum of 50 000 population in a water supply zone (i.e. up to a
                      maximum of 120 samples)
250    Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water


   The above accord with the EC requirements and are also similar to the WHO
recommendations and to the monitoring regime set out in the US National Primary
Drinking Water Regulations.
   Routine bacteriological samples should also be taken from raw water sources to ensure
that the levels of treatment and applied disinfection are adequate. Where untreated water
is supplied without disinfection, a minimum sampling frequency should be established
based on local conditions.
   Additional samples must always be taken for testing in the event of a bacteriological
failure either in the water leaving a water treatment works or in the distribution system.
Such samples should also be tested for faecal streptococci and clostridia. Routine samples
are also advisable following any interruptions to supplies or any repair work that might
have compromised the integrity of the distribution system.
   Additional samples for a variety of biological tests should also be taken when there is a
suspected water-borne outbreak of illness.



6.64     Sampling for routine bacteriological parameters
The sample should always be representative of the water in supply and care should always
be taken to avoid accidental contamination either during or after sampling. Personnel
taking bacteriological samples should be adequately trained and aware of the responsi-
bilities of their role. They should be aware of the need to avoid cross-contamination
between raw and treated water samples during transit and of the need to deliver the
samples to the analysing laboratory without undue delay. Ideally bacteriological samples
should be examined within 6 hours of sampling. Where this is not possible, samples should
be stored in the dark at temperatures of between 2 and 10~ and analysed as soon as
practicable and preferably within 24 hours.
   Raw water samples should be taken at the inlet to the treatment works and preferably at
a dedicated sampling point. Wherever possible dip samples should be avoided unless there
is no alternative.
   Water leaving a water treatment works should be sampled from a dedicated sample tap,
which should be metal and of an approved design. The sample point should be located so
as to be representative of the water entering supply. In some cases it may be necessary to
have more than one sample point. Delivery pipework should be of a suitable material and
as short as possible. The sample tap should be kept clean and be prominently labelled. It is
not advisable to take bacteriological samples from constantly running taps as the action of
turning the tap off to disinfect it and then turning it on again to run to waste could
dislodge particulates or biofilm from the sample line.
   Sample taps at service reservoirs should also be of metal and to an approved design.
Delivery pipework should be as short as possible and the system designed to ensure that
water sampled is representative of the reservoir as a whole.
   Sampling from consumers' taps can often be difficult. The tap should be clean, in good
 repair and free of attachments. It should also supplied direct from the rising main to be
 representative of the water in supply. Many of the mixer taps currently available in
 developed countries are made of materials that are very difficult to disinfect: Therefore
 extra care is always needed to ensure that the tap is adequately cleaned and sterilised
 before being sampled.
                                   6.65 Methodology for bacteriological examination 251

Method of sampling
The order of sampling should always be physico-chemical samples and then samples for
bacteriological analysis. This is because some chemical tests for samples taken at
consumers' taps have to be carried out on first draw samples (e.g. copper, zinc and lead)
and samples for PAH should be taken before the tap is disinfected. As soon as any
chemical samples have been taken, the sample tap should then be disinfected either by
using a blow torch in the case of a metal tap or by swabbing the outside and as much of the
inside as possible with sodium hypochlorite solution, or an equivalent chemical dis-
infectant, and allowing a few minutes for the process to work. The tap should then be
run to waste until the water is cool or until all the chemical disinfectant had been removed.
The flow rate of the water should remain steady throughout this period and when the
sample is being taken in order to reduce the risk of any biofilm being dislodged into the
sample.
   Only sterilised sample bottles should be used and, if the water being sampled contains
residual chlorine, the bottle should contain a small amount of 2% w/v sodium thio-
sulphate to dechlorinate the sample. The sample bottle should not be rinsed but filled in
one movement, with the cap or stopper being removed for the minimum time possible. The
lip of the bottle should not be allowed to come into contact with the tap and the bottle
should be filled without splashing, leaving a small air space below the caTp or stopper. Care
should always be taken not to contaminate the cap or stopper and if accidental
contamination is suspected the sample should be discarded and taken again in a new
bottle.
   In some cases it may be necessary to take samples from hydrants or standpipes,
particularly for new and repaired mains. The hydrant box should always be cleared of any
accumulated water and the outlet should be dosed with sodium hypochlorite before the
standpipe, which should be kept in a clean condition, is attached. The hydrant should then
be cracked open to fill its outlet and the standpipe and allowed to stand for at least
5 minutes before flushing. Flushing should continue until the residual chlorine level is that
of the mains supply and the bacteriological sample should be carefully taken without
turning the water off.
   Occasionally dip samples have to be taken for investigational purposes. Special wide
mouthed sterile bottles should be used. These should have a sterilised wire attached for
taking the sample and care must always be taken to avoid incurring any contamination of
the water being sampled.



6.65    Methodology for bacteriological examination
The methods for the routine bacteriological examination of water are well documented in
the Standing Committee of Analysts publication - The Microbiology of Water 1994;
Part 1 - Drinking Water (still often referred to as 'Report 71' being first issued under that
number by the Ministry of Health in the 1950s). 39 Equivalent test procedures are given in
the American Standard Methods (see Section 6.52).
   Established methods should always be used for routine analyses and good laboratory
practice should be adopted at all times, with special precautions being taken to avoid
accidental contamination of samples once they are in the laboratory. Appropriate quality
control procedures should be used at all stages of the analysis and laboratories should
252    Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

partake in external quality control schemes, such as inter laboratory tests, where these are
available.
  The choice of method for coliform analysis depends to a certain extent on the number of
organisms likely to be present. Membrane filtration is the best approach for treated waters
but it is not suitable for highly turbid waters or for waters containing only a small number
of indicator organisms in the presence of large numbers of other bacteria capable of
growing on the media used. The multiple tube method is particularly suitable for very
contaminated samples or samples containing a lot of sediment.


Present-absence tests for total coliforms
These are a modification of the multiple tube procedure, based on a single 100 ml volume
of appropriate medium, such as minerals modified glutamate, instead of a series of tubes
of different volumes. The tests provide a very good indication as to whether total
coliforms, and therefore possibly faecal coliforms, are present in a sample incubated at
37~ for 18-24 hours. However the draw back of such tests is that a positive sample
cannot be enumerated.


Other test kits
There are a number of other field test kits available on the market. Most consist of a small
portable incubator, which can if necessary be plugged into a car battery, and a means of
aseptically filtering a sample. The most simplistic form consists of a small sterile mem-
brane on a flame and housed in a dedicated container containing an appropriate medium.
The membrane is dipped in the water sample and after incubation the result is essentially
the same as that obtained for the present-absence coliform test, although some estimate
can be made of the number of coliforms present in a positive sample. However, since only
a small volume of sample is used, the sensitivity of the test is reduced, thus such equipment
is most suited to waters containing moderate rather than low levels of coliform organisms
(e.g. more than 200 per 100 ml). The more sophisticated test kits provide the equivalent of
a portable laboratory. Some test kits offer initial results after only 5-6 hours incubation.
   Considerable care has to be taken with all field test kits to ensure that samples do not
become contaminated during analysis, and that adequate sample dilutions have been
prepared to cover the expected concentration ranges. Colony identification and counting
must be carried out by an experienced person, familiar with techniques of identifying
coliform bacteria, since non-coliform organisms may also be visible on the membrane.
This is particularly so in tropical or sub-tropical climates. A basic level of analytical
quality control should always be adopted with test kits, to include positive and negative
control samples and a record of the incubator temperature.



6.66     Protozoal examination
Water companies in England and Wales are expected to implement a defined monitoring
programme for all sources considered to be at risk of Cryptosporidium. Continuous
sampling of the treated water entering supply is also required at treatment works
considered to be at risk of breaching the new Cryptosporidium standard (see Section 6.57).
                                                            6.68 Nuisance organisms 253

   The US National Primary Drinking Water Regulations also specifies the level of
monitoring required for Cryptosporidium and Giardia lamblia in public water systems,
linked to the level of treatment and the potential for contamination of the raw water.
   Sampling methods include continuous sampling, large volume grab samples, or
composite samples. For general surveillance purposes, a large volume of water sampled
through a filter over a long period of time is likely to give the best result. However this
may not prove to be possible if the water is very turbid or contains a lot of algae. Grab
samples provide a more immediate result for operational purposes.
   Standard methods of analysis are available for both protozoa. The biggest problem
associated with some of the methods for Cryptosporidium is the low percentage recovery.
There is no guarantee that oocysts are not present simply because no oocysts have been
detected. Research is ongoing to further improve methodology and performance criteria.
Other research has indicated that Clostridium perfringens could provide a useful indicator
when protozoal contamination of a treated water is suspected.


6.67    Virological examination
Human enteric viruses, although many times less numerous than E. coli bacteria in
domestic sewage, occur widely in surface waters and are found in some well waters subject
to contamination.
   Routine testing of water for viruses is not recommended, as it would require trained
virologists and adequate laboratory facilities. Large volume samples of 5-50 litres would
also be required, depending on the type of water, and the analytical procedures tend to be
time-consuming and complicated.
   Bacteriophages (or coliphages), which are viruses that can infect bacterial cells, have
been proposed as possible viral indicators in drinking water, since it has been found that
bacteriophages and enteroviruses tend to be inactivated at similar rates during treatment.
Furthermore the isolation of bacteriophages is relatively straightforward and rapid,
thereby providing an effective means of monitoring treatment processes for the removal
and inactivation of enteroviruses.
   Neither the WHO nor the EC set standards for viruses in drinking water. The USEPA
has set a maximum contaminant level goal of zero, with a treatment requirement of at least
99.99% (or 4-log) removal and/or inactivation of any viruses present in the raw water.


6.68 Nuisance organisms
Iron bacteria
There are several groups of iron bacteria, all of which are capable of abstracting and
oxidising any ferrous and manganous ions present in a water. The process is continuous
with a large accumulation of rust coloured or black deposits developing over time. These
deposits tend to accumulate in storage tanks and on the walls of pipes in low flow areas of
the distribution system. Pipes may become blocked or the flow seriously impaired and any
disturbance of the deposits results in badly discoloured water.
   The growth of iron bacteria also results in an increase in the organic content of the
water that could in turn encourage the growth of other nuisance organisms. In
combination with sulphur bacteria, they also contribute to the corrosion of iron and
steel pipelines.
254    Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

  The development of the organisms can only occur where there is sufficient iron or
manganese present in a water at the ideal oxidation-reduction potential. Thus iron
bacteria are widely found in the bottom muds of raw water reservoirs where the depletion
of oxygen provides adequate ferrous ion. They can also be associated with ferruginous
groundwaters containing high levels of free carbon dioxide and low levels of oxygen.

Sulphur bacteria
There are two groups of sulphur bacteria with implications for the water industry.
Sulphate reducing bacteria grow in anaerobic conditions and reduce any sulphate present
in the water to hydrogen sulphide. They contribute to galvanic corrosion of water mains
and can cause taste and odour problems.
   Sulphur oxidising bacteria grow in aerobic conditions and produce sulphuric acid from
any sulphides present, for example in sewers.

Actinomycetes
Actinomycetes and other micro fungi can give rise to earthy or musty tastes and odours,
particularly in water derived from nutrient rich lowland sources. The two compounds
most usually formed during actinomycete development are geosmin and 2-methylisobor-
neol, both of which have very low threshold taste/odour values.


                                Part IV Water biology
6.69     Introduction
Rivers and lakes can support a wide range of plants and animals. These living organisms
(the biota) form ecosystems which are in balance with important variables such as climate,
water quality and human uses. The biota usually contribute beneficially to water quality of
surface waters but may, particularly when not in balance, also have deleterious effects. A
large number of organisms have been reported as causing problems in rivers and reservoirs
used for water supply, during treatment and within the distribution system. Most
organisms can readily be removed during treatment but some create problems and special
care has to be taken to ensure that they do not pass through to the distribution system and
to the consumer.
   Figure 6.1 summarises the most important issues raised by biota and the key
interactions at the various stages of water supply are briefly described in the following
paragraphs.
   Consumers regard the presence of living organisms in potable water as aesthetically
unacceptable, as they indicate an impure product. Apart from their mere presence, such
biota can cause deteriorating water quality by introducing turbidity, tastes and odours as a
result of their metabolism, and greatly increasing the chlorine demand. Algae - which are
largely microscopic p l a n t s - are of considerable importance to the treatment process
designer because of the problems they can cause with clarification and filtration.
   Only one animal, whose adult life is free living, has been positively identified as a health
hazard in drinking water. This is a water flea, which is the host for a human parasite, the
guinea worm, which can infest man if ingested. There are other animals, which are
parasitic in man and which produce life stages that are free living and could be transmitted
if not killed or removed by treatment. Finally there are animals which if not removed
                                                   6.70 Source water and storage reservoirs           255


would proliferate in the distribution systems where their activities could facilitate the
survival of disease organisms such as bacteria or viruses.



6.70      Source water and storage reservoirs
There are two main groups of plants in rivers and standing waters, algae that are largely
microscopic and the larger, readily visible, m a c r o p h y t e s - the plants commonly named
water weeds. Algae are simple green plants, most of which are free floating (planktonic)
forms ranging in size from single celled species of 2-5 microns diameter to larger colonial
forms up to several rnillimetres. There are however some species of algae which grow to
macroscopic size as attached fronds in rivers or as upright forms on lake beds. The number
of algae and the species found depend upon the local environmental conditions, such as
temperature and the concentrations of dissolved salts and particularly the available


       Supply stages             Problems                       Groups                      Habit

         Source            Algal blooms and scums           Blue-green a l g a e        Planktonic
       and storage         Midge swarms                     Chironomid midges           Aerial


                           Losses in hydraulic              Sponges                "1
                           capacity                         Pipe mosses                 Benthic, i.e.
                                                            Mussels                f    bottom dwelling


                                                            Algae                  "~ Planktonic, i.e.
                                                            Water fleas            f live in the body




                       I
                           Operational problems,       f    Cyclops spp               of water
                           such as filter blocking,         Daphinia spp.
        Treatment          clarifier launders clogged,      Attached algae
                           chlorination by-products,        Midge larvae
                           taste and odours, coloured       Asellus                     Benthic
                           waters                           Shrimps, e.g.
                                                            Gammarus spp.



         Service           Ingress and                      Chironomids                 Aerial/aquatic
        reservoirs         proliferation                    Various animals             Terrestrial
                           of animals




       II I
                                                            Asellus



                                                                                   )
                                                            Gammarus
                           Dirty water,                ~"   Chironomidlarvae
       Distribution        presence of bacteria,       ~    Worms                       Benthic
         system            consumer complaints              Round worms
                                                            Water fleas
                                                            Cyclops spp.
                                                            Snails

Fig. 6.1 Biologicalinteractions with water supply (adapted from a WRC figure).
256   Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

nutrients such as nitrogen and phosphorus which the plants, with energy from sunlight,
build into their biomass.
   Given the right conditions, plants will grow until the available nutrients are exhausted,
and if not controlled may cause a variety of nuisances. For example water weeds or larger
attached algae can cause major engineering problems such as mechanical breakages to
control structures and even river channel blockages. Surface 'blooms' of floating algae can
affect slow moving and standing waters, causing fish kills through deoxygenation of the
water and the sliming of fish gills as the algae die and decay. In 1998 a major fish kill of
over 150 tonnes of trout and coarse fish occurred in a fish farm fed from the Kennet and
Avon canal in the UK due to this effect.
   In recent years many rivers have shown an increase in nutrients, a feature which also
occurs as rivers flow downstream. Starting as clean upland streams they often become
polluted lowland waters from direct and indirect releases of wastes. This tendency to
nutrient enrichment has become known as eutrophication and is outlined in Chapter 7.
Whilst additional nutrients may improve plant and animal growth up to a certain point,
beyond that point the excess nutrients can have a deleterious biological effect. This is
because the growth of rapid growing biota is favoured and these species tend to be tolerant
of most forms of pollution. They take over or dominate the other biota at the expense of
the less tolerant forms. Many of these less tolerant forms are clean water biota and are
highly valued for attracting animals such as salmon and trout, dragonflies and mayflies.
By comparison the more tolerant species include nuisance organisms such as midges or
some of the bloom-forming algae, few of which are regarded as attractive.
   The macrophytes, the larger aquatic plants, may be floating plants or grow as emergent
or submerged waterweeds. These plants maintain healthy ecosystems by providing food
and shelter for numerous animals. They also create water quality improvements by
allowing settlement of particulates in quiescent areas, by incorporation of nutrients from
the water and by oxygenation. When in excess macrophytes can prove troublesome by
reducing the carrying capacity of water courses, blocking intakes and water control
structures, whilst sudden die off can lead to foul water.
   There has been a great deal of research and development of methods to reduce the
adverse effects of eutrophication, varying from control of the cause at the sewage works
using a range of phosphorus and nitrogen removal technologies 4~ to in-lake methods of
lake management. These include direct intervention, such as the traditional use of copper
sulphate 41 dosed direct to the water at times of blooms to kill the algae (a process now not
acceptable to most authorities due to the toxicity of copper to other biota including
humans), or control using barley straw which decays in the water releasing an algal toxin,
as well as more subtle and indirect methods using introduced species or biological
communities as a form of bio-manipulation. This book cannot cover all the literature on
the control of algae and other biota in eutrophic waters but the reader may find two recent
reviews useful. 42'43
   Although lakes and reservoirs vary considerably in size and other conditions, the range
 of species of algae is small and there is a characteristic make-up of species of algae that is
 found in similar water bodies anywhere in the world. As the waters leave the uplands and
 enter lowland plains there is an increase in dissolved solids, in temperature, and, in many
 developed countries, in nutrients from sewage discharges. There is commonly a transition
 in the algae from diatoms that tend to dominate in cold upland waters to green and to
 blue-green algae that thrive in warm, often shallow and nutrient rich lowland waters.
                                                                  6.71 Transfer stages 257

Nutrient poor upland Waters are known as oligotrophic (poorly fed) whilst the richer
nutrient waters are eutrophic (well-fed) waters. Oligotrophic waters tend to have a few
species of flagellate algae such as the Chrysophyte genera Synura, Uroglena and in the
spring there may be blooms of diatoms such as Cyclotella, Tabellaria or Asterionella.
Green algae are common in many ponds and shallow water bodies, common species being
Chlamydamonas, Chlorella, Euglena, Chlorococcus, Coelastrum, Cosmarium, Oocystis,
Pediastrum, Scenedesmus and Staurastrum. Blue-green algae are a group of primitive algae
more closely related to bacteria than algae whose current name, Cyanobacteria, is
gradually increasing in use, although the older term is retained here for convenience. Many
blue-green algae are colonial, usually with variable numbers of cells in the colonies and
able to grow very rapidly in warm waters. A number of the commonest blue-green have
flotation 'devices' such as gas vacuoles in the cells or mucus which binds the colonies into
large rafts; examples are Anabaena, Microcystis, Aphanizomenon, and Oscillatoria. As
already noted in Section 6.3 some of the blue-green algae also produce toxins present in
the mucopolysaccharides that make up the mucus released by the cells. The toxins are not
always present and their presence cannot currently be predicted except that high
concentrations of the named blue-green species give rise to a higher risk. There have been
numerous accounts of the ecology and biology of algae but the works of Palmer in the
U S A 44 and Bellinger in the UK provide a good general introduction. Illustrations of algae
genera of significance in water supply taken from Bellinger 45 are shown in Fig. 6.2.



6.71    Transfer stages
The effects that plant growth can have on the carrying capacity of water courses has
already been mentioned. Plants can serious reduce the cross-section of open channels and
also increase the frictional resistance to flow. This is usually a minor problem in UK but
can be an important issue in tropical countries where plant growth can be substantial. It is
also more often a problem associated with bulk water transfers as in irrigation canals, in
which velocities are commonly already low.
   Plant growth in water courses, whilst maintaining a good aquatic habitat, can at the
same time promote other problems for the water manager. In the Ely Ouse scheme in UK,
the good habitat provided by plants has encouraged coarse fish. These then shoal and
block the intake screens for this inter-river transfer scheme. In many tropical countries
snails, carrying the intermediate vector for schistosomiasis (bilharzia or sleeping sickness),
thrive in clean water canals and can create a major health hazard. M olluscicides are
needed to control the snail, combined with adequate education of the local population
with regard to sensible personal hygiene practice.
   Plants do not in themselves cause problems in pipelines, as without light they cannot
grow. There are however a number organisms that do give rise to problems in raw water
transfer pipelines. These tend to be filter feeding animals such as sponges, moss
animalcules (these are colonial forms resembling the common hydroid Hydra), mussels
and, where sediments build up in major transfer systems, even cockles can be found within
the sediments. These forms thrive upon algae and other fine plant debris carried into the
pipelines and can result in increased headloss in the system, tastes and odours imparted to
the water, and blockages when dead animals fall from the pipe walls. Water louse, shrimps
and fish also occur in low velocity bulk water transfer systems.
258     Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

                                                      Single celled algae




  0             I          I           I              I       I                    I              I                             I                   I
  Chlorella                Oocystis              Chlorococcus                Chlamydamonas                                      Cryptomonas
      green                    green                  green                            green                                    chrysophyte




                                                                                                                                                            )
                       I        I                                    I   I                            I                I                  I             I
                      Euglena                                     Staurastrum                         Cosmarium                               Cyclotella
                     flagellate                                     desmid                                desmid                               diatom




  I            ,I               l                         I                  I                I                    [                  I
Stephanodiscus                             Navicula                              Fragilaria                                Melosira
      diatom                               diatom                                 diatom                                   diatom

                                               Scale bar indicates 10 pm length

Fig. 6.2      Algae genera of significance in water supply.


  In a recent, unusual instance in Hong Kong, animals have given water quality benefits.
'Moss animalcules'- which grow in a layer resembling a moss - grow naturally in a
number of the extensive raw water tunnels. The presence of copious nitrifying bacteria in
the matrix of fibres making up the colony of animals is able to strip any ammonia from the
water in mains or tunnels that carry this biota. The improvement in water quality, and the
reduced chlorine demand for pre-chlorination, has been sufficient to encourage manage-
ment to promote this situation in other pipelines.


6.72          Treatment stages
The seasonality and speciation of algae has become an important issue in water supply as
many of the algae have highly specific effects on the treatment process. In investigating
problems with algae in the treatment process, it is important to be able to measure algae
and the specific removal rates accurately. This has been difficult as the techniques of
counting or measuring the plants have to vary to suit the organisms being counted. The
                                                                                                                       6.72 Treatment stages             259

                                                                                            Colonial algae




                               Oscillatoria                                                 Aphanizomenon
                               blue green                                                      blue green                                   I        I
                                                                                                                                         Anabaena
                                                                                                                                         blue green
                     ,v ~,,~,~',,~
                           ~ . " 2 c,

                 ,<,,~c,, 3 oo,;,                                  ,.
             v    v v.,    r      . , a , . , '.G "-'              r
       cp,'~,'Oo~ ,c," , ""
       )Vo") C , ' ~              ~                      (     ,00
      ~G,r                     ro - "                   .,-,       C, , )
   G~,., /                       , v                           0
                                                                     )l G
   "l~ ~ G " ~             fa     9 G.~                 G           " G" G "
 ~,o,'~"v Y v ' .o,
   9 ,-, -       ~ c, c, o ~_",',,~"~,~
                          )~    o ~   ,    ,    9 c~ .~'-'~ v , )          )




                                                                                                          I     I                    ~
                       I   I
                                                                                                        Asterionella
                    Microcystis                                                                              diatom
                    blue green
                                                                                                                                J               .]
                                                                               I~J                                              Scenedesmus
                                                                               Tabellaria                                           green
                                                                                diatom

                       I    I                                                                            I    I
                     Coelastrum                                                                        Pediastrum
                               green                                                                         green

                                                                                  Scale bar indicates 10 gm length

Fig. 6.2                  (Continued). Algae genera of significance in water supply.



most standard measurement in the past has been direct counting under a light microscope
with numbers being reported as cells or organisms or colonies per unit volume, with some
agencies preferring to report the plan area or even the volume of the cells per unit
volume. 2a The cost and subjectivity of counting has led to other methods being used such
as the use of chemical analogues - the measurement of particulate organic carbon (POC)
or the green pigment chlorophyll a - which is extracted and measured, or can now be
measured fluorimetrically. In recent years particle counting using modified optical Coulter
counter techniques has been use in special studies.
   In Chapter 7 the treatment processes are discussed individually and in Table 7.5 of that
chapter a list of a number of common algae species and their reported effects on the
individual treatment processes is provided. For example, some species can penetrate and
bypass filters whilst also blocking the same sand filters when present in large numbers;
others may be damaged on the filter and release cell contents. These compounds may also
be present in raw waters and interfere with flocculation; in addition some react with
260    Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

chlorine to produce chlorinated by-products, some of which have been shown to be
carcinogenic. 25 As has been noted in Section 6.3, a number of the cell contents of some
algae, notably the blue-green algae, may contain substances which are toxic to humans.
The details of the specific effects of the algae on the unit processes are dealt with in
Chapter 7.
   As noted in the introductory section of this part there are no limits set for animals or
plants in drinking waters though there is a presumption that they should be absent. In
practice it is difficult to prevent some carry over of algae and small animal components
from treatment processes though these are killed by the final chlorination before leaving
the treatment works. Values for an algal content of between 100-1000 cells/ml, which is a
range close to the lowest discernible limit for direct optical counting, have been used as a
guide over the years. The lower number of 100 cells/ml has been advocated as a practical
limit for the treated water prior to final chlorination. 46


6.73     Service reservoirs and distribution systems
Water in service reservoirs and distribution systems will be chlorinated and, in the
majority of cases, kept in the dark as most service reservoirs are covered to avoid photo-
oxidation of the chlorine residual or aerial contamination of the water entering supply
zones. It is therefore often surprising how many living organisms are found in such areas.
Plants are seldom found in such systems as light levels are too low, but where mains have
been laid too near the surface the roots of trees can penetrate brick or concrete conduits
and have caused blockage and a pathway for other organisms to enter.
   Service reservoirs should have midge- and mosquito-proof mesh fitted to all the essential
air vents provided near the roof of the reservoir as such gaps have been shown to allow
ready colonisation by the flying adults which lay their eggs on cool damp surfaces.
   Apart from contamination at the surface contact points, the main source of animals
found in the distribution system is the treatment process and, in an number of cases in the
past, it has been found that the source may be not simply the by-passing of the
clarification and filter stages by animals in the raw water, but rather that animal
communities build up in the sedimentation tank and filters and provide a regular slippage
of animals to the final water. These animals include a wide variety of freshwater forms
including nematode worms, water fleas, the water louse and chironomid midge larvae.
Correct control of treatment processes including, where there is a eutrophic water body
providing the raw water, pre-treatment oxidation by chlorine or ozone, and where
necessary occasional oxidation of process stages has been shown to be effective in
controlling such nuisance animals.


                        Part V New and emerging issues

6.74     Introduction
The WHO has a continuing process of revision for the Guidelines for Drinking-water
Quality. 1"25Additional guidelines will be issued as new substances are evaluated or as new
scientific information becomes available.
   A similar process of review and revision over a specific period of time is built into the
new EC Directive 21 and into the American National Primary Drinking Water
                                                                 6.75 Chemical issues    261


Regulations. 23 However a number of topics, both chemical and microbiological, have
recently emerged which have caused concern for consumers. Some of the more major
issues are discussed below.


6.75 Chemical issues
Methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE)
MTBE is the main fuel oxygenate for unleaded petrol. It is highly soluble, highly mobile in
the aquatic environment, not significantly absorbed and not significantly attenuated or
biodegraded. There is a possibility of it contaminating groundwaters via leaking storage
tanks and pipes.
   MTBE is included on the EPA Drinking Water Contaminant Candidate List because of
its potential as a contaminant of drinking water, but will not be subject to monitoring until
2001. In the UK, water companies carry out limited monitoring.
   To date there a~e no published data on concentrations in drinking water and data on
health effects are not very comprehensive. However it would be detectable in drinking
water by taste/odour at concentrations much lower than any perceived health risk.

Perchlorate
Perchlorates can be used in the manufacture of explosives but are more generally used as
an additive to petroleum products to increase the octane number.
   Perchlorates have been detected in some US drinking waters. However there are
significant gaps in knowledge of health effects, levels in drinking water and effective
removal during treatment. The USEPA has included the parameter on the Contaminant
Candidate List to ensure that the required research is undertaken.

Endocrine disrupters
Since the early 1970s a large amount of research has been carried out world wide on
substances that may disrupt human or animal endocrine systems. These substances can
either be oestrogenic or androgenic and it has been claimed that they may be responsible
for increases in breast and testicular cancer and for decreases in sperm counts.
   Research in the UK has confirmed that steroids excreted by the human population,
which are present in sewage effluents, are implicated in the feminisation of male fish.
However the results applied to fish kept in cages in sewage effluent or to fish at points
close to sewage effluent discharges. No equivalent effect has been reported for fish at
points where water is abstracted for drinking water or in water storage reservoirs.
   A recent study commissioned by the Department of the Environment, Transport and
the Regions 47 investigated a number of approved water supply products as potential
sources of exposure to endocrine disrupters. Transient and low levels of leaching were
observed in some construction materials. Higher and more persistent levels were noted in
some in situ glues and additives but exposure is likely to be very low. These products were
all used within buildings rather than the public water supply system.
   A method has been developed for the determination of oestrone, 17c~-ethynl oestradiol
and 17/3-oestradiol in drinking water at levels of concern. Laboratory scale tests have
shown that large concentrations of these substances can be effectively removed by aeration
or coagulation and sedimentation, or powdered activated carbon. These oestrogens can
262    Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

also be removed by chlorination at concentrations typically used for final disinfection.
Research is continuing on other substances such as nonyl phenol, bis phenol a and nonyl
ethoxylates, which have been shown in bio-assays to possess endocrine disrupting
properties.


Bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE)
BSE, or mad cow disease, is believed to be caused by the presence of an aberrant prion
protein in the central nervous system. Other hypotheses put forward include damage to the
central nervous system in cattle from the use of organophosphorus pesticides and
autoimmunity triggered by exposure to bacteria of the Acinetobacter species. There is no
evidence as yet to support these theories and no evidence that exposure to Acinetobacter,
via contaminated water, has any role in human CJD.
   The aberrant prion has the same chemical structure as the normal prion but a different
molecular shape. The protein in the BSE agent is considered likely to be in an aggregated
form and could be likened physically to a small virus. It may be assumed that the BSE
agent is biologically and chemically stable. Furthermore, it is considered likely to be
hydrophobic.
   Assuming that the aberrant prion is the cause of BSE, it is unlikely that it would enter a
water source by normal routes. Even if a water source were to be contaminated by BSE
infected material, it is considered that the prion would be effectively removed by
conventional treatment. However additional treatment may be needed at groundwater
sites, as a precautionary measure, if risk assessment studies identify a potential risk.



6.76     Microbiological issues

Aeromonas
There are eleven named species of Aeromonas, of which there are a number of sub-species.
The organisms are widely found in the aquatic environment and have been associated with
biofilms in water distribution systems. Most treatment processes effectively remove
Aeromonads and free chlorine residuals of 0.2-0.5 mg/1 are considered sufficient to
control the organisms in distribution systems.
  The main health effects are the causation of wound infections and septicaemia.
Aeromonads have also been associated with diarrhoeal illness. Various methods of
detection are available.


Arcobacter
Four species of Arcobacter are generally recognised as gram-negative, spore forming rods.
The organisms have been associated with diarrhoeal illness and there have been isolated
incidents when water supplies might have been implicated in infections. However the
epidemiology of such infections is not well understood.
  No data are currently available on removal efficiency during treatment. Arcobacter
species are similar to Campylobacter, so they are likely to be susceptible to inactivation by
disinfectants such as chlorine and ozone.
                                                                           References   263


Enterovirulent Escherichia coil
Certain strains of E. coli are an important cause of diarrhoeal illness and have been termed
entrovirulent E. coli. Several classes have been defined based on the possession of distinct
virulence factors. These are the enteropathogenic, enterotoxigenic, enteroinvasive and
vereocytotoxigenic (VTEC) E. coli. The most data currently available relates to E. coli
0157, one of the VTEC strains that does not ferment sorbitol. The organisms can cause a
wide range of symptoms including vomiting, fever, bloody and mucoid stools and, in
severe cases, acute renal failure.
   Depending upon the source of contamination, these organisms may be presence in water
supplies. Most outbreaks have been associated with the consumption of contaminated
food. However a number of minor outbreaks have been linked to small private water
supplies, usually on farms and with no treatment. A more significant outbreak occurred in
June 1998 and involved a municipal water supply in Wyoming, where there were 50
confirmed cases, almost half requiring hospitalisation.
   Specific techniques exist to detect these organisms in water. Water treatment processes
provide effective removal at the same level as for normal E. coli.


Adenoviruses
Human adenoviruses belong to the Mastedenovirus genus in the family Adenovirus. There
are 47 serotypes, grouped into six sub-groups, which can cause upper respiratory
infections, conjunctivitis and febrile illness. They are identified by electron microscopy.
   They can be transmitted by water but should be inactivated by conventional water
treatment processes.


Astroviruses
Seven different serotypes of human astroviruses have been described. They can be identi-
fied by electron microscopy, using ELISA techniques as well as molecular techniques.
They cause gastroenteritis and can be transmitted by water.
   It is anticipated that conventional water treatment should be able to produce virus free
water.


Norwalk-type viruses
Molecular characterisation of the RNA genome has demonstrated the Norwalk-like virus
to be part of the Calcivirus family, distinct from classic members. Different strains can be
circulating in the community at any one time. These viruses can be detected by electron
microscopy, using polymerase chain reaction and ELISA techniques. These viruses are
responsible for nausea and diarrhoea and have been implicated in contaminated water.
   Normal water treatment processes should remove viruses.


References
  1. WHO. Guidelines for Drinking-Water Quality, 2nd edn, 1993, and subsequent
     amendments, including Addendums to Volumes 1 and 2, 1998. Vol. 1 - Recommenda-
     tions; Vol. 2 - Health Criteria and Other Supporting Information, Vol. 3             -
264       Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water


     Surveillance and Control of Community Supplies. HMSO, London, and WHO,
     Geneva.
     Council of European Communities. Directive 98/83, 3 November 1998 on the Quality
      ,




     of Water Intended for Human Consumption. EC Official Journal L330/41, 1998.
     Water Supply (Water Quality) Regulations 1989, and subsequent amendments.
      .




     Statutory Instruments 1989 No. 1147; 1989 No. 1384; 1999 No. 1524.
     Public Law 93-523, Safe Drinking Water Act (December 1974) and amendments
      ,




     under the Safe Drinking Water Act 1996, USA.
     Council of European Communities, Directive 80/778, 15 July 1980 on the Quality of
     Water Intended for Human Consumption. EC Official Journal L229/11, 1980.
     Carmichael W. W. Harmful Algal Blooms: A Global Phenomenon. Proceedings of
      ,




     the 1st International Symposium on Detection Methods for Cyanobacterial (Blue-
     Green Algal) Toxins. University of Bath Sept. 1993 (Royal Society of Chemistry).
     Falconer I. R. et al. Using Activated Carbon to Remove Toxicity From Drinking
      ~




     Water Containing Cyanobacterial Blooms. JA WWA, August 1989, pp. 102-105.
     Lahti K and Hissvirta L. Removal of cynaobacterial toxins in water treatment
     processes: review of studies conducted in Finland. Water Supply 7, 1989, pp. 149-154.
     Guidance on Safeguarding the Quality of Public Water Supplies. DoE 1990, HMSO,
      ,




     London.
 10. Asbestos in Drinking Water. WRC Technical Report TR 202, 1984
 11. Cambell H. S. Corrosion, water composition and water treatment, JSWTE, 19, 1970,
     p. 277.
 12. Siddiqui M. S. et al. Bromate Formation: A Critical Review. JA WWA, October 1995,
     pp. 58-69.
 13. Fluoridation Studies in UK and Results Achieved After Eleven Years. Report of
     Research Committee of the Moll, No. 22, 1969, HMSO, London.
 14. DHSS. Circ.71/150, 17 August 1971.
 15. Reports by the Drinking Water Inspectorate on Nitrate, Pesticide and Lead, 1991 to
     1994, and 1995 and 1996.
 16. Study on Nitrate in Drinking Water and Childhood-Onset Insulin-Dependent
     Diabetes Mellitus in Scotland and Central England. Commissioned by the
     Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions, March 1999.
 17. Hunt S. M. and Fawell J. K. The Toxicology of organic Micropollutants in Drinking
     Water; Estimating the Risk, JIWEM, June 1987, pp. 276-284.
 18. Bourgine F. P. et al. The Degradation of Atrazine and Other Pesticides by Photolysis.
     JCIWEM, 9, August 1995, p. 417.
 19. Recommendations of the International Commission on Radiological Protection. Annals
     of ICRP, 1990.
 20. Sodium, Chloride and Conductivity in Drinking Water. WHO Regional Office for
     Europe, Copenhagen, 1979.
 21. Pontius F. W. Complying with the New Drinking Water Regulations. JA WWA, Feb.
      1990, pp. 32-52; A Current Look at Federal Drinking Water Regulations. JA WWA,
     March 1992, pp. 36-50; and New Horizons in Federal Regulation. JA WWA, March
      1998, pp. 38-50.
 22. Fawell J. K. Developments in health-related standards for chemicals in drinking
     water. JIWEM, Oct. 1991, pp. 562-565.
                                                                      References   265

23. EC Directive 75/440. Concerning the Quality of Surface Water Intended for the
    Abstraction of Drinking Water. Official Journal L194.
24. The Surface Waters (Abstraction for Drinking Water)(Classification) Regulations
    1996. Statutory Instrument 1996/3001. (Replacing the earlier Surface Waters
    (Classification) Regulations, 1989.)
25. WHO. Guidelines for Drinking-Water Quality, Vol. 2. WHO, Geneva, 1996.
26. Standing Committee of Analysts, Methods for the Examination of Waters and
    Associated Materials (a series of booklets). HMSO, London, 1976 onwards.
27. Standard Methods for the Physical and Chemical Examination of Water and
     Wastewaters. American Public Health Association, New York, 1971 and subsequent
    editions, latest edn 19th, 1995.
28. Hutton L. G. Field Testing of Water in Developing Countries. WRc, 1983.
29. List of Substances, Products and Processes Approved Under Regulations 25 and 26 [of
    the Water Supply (Water Quality) Regulations 1989], Drinking Water Inspectorate,
    Department of Transport, Environment and the Regions, Dec. 1998.
30. Suckling E. V. The Examination of Water and Water Supplies, 5th edn. Churchill,
    Edinburgh, 1943.
31. Barrow G. I. Legionnaire's Disease and its Impact on Water Supply Management.
    JIWEM, Aug. 1987, p. 117.
32. Legionnaire's Disease, Guidance Note EH48, Health and Safety Executive, London,
    1987.
33. Code of Practice for Operation and Maintenance of Cooling Towers and Hot and Cold
    Water Services in Health Service Buildings, Dept of Health and Social Security,
    HMSO, London, 1989.
34. Smith H. V. Cryptosporidium and Water: A Review. JIWEM, August 1992, p. 443.
35. Cryptosporidium in Water Supplies." Report by the Group of Experts. DoE, HMSO,
    London, July 1990.
36. Cryptosporidium in Water Supplies. Second Report by the Group of Experts. DoE,
    HMSO, London, Oct. 1995.
37. Cryptosporidium in Water Supplies." Third Report by the Group of Experts. DETR,
    London, Nov. 1998.
38. The Water Supply (Water Quality) (Amendment) Regulations, 1999.
39. Standing Committee of Analysts, The Microbiology of Water; Part 1 -Drinking
    Water. HMSO, London, 1994.
40. Anon. Biogrowth. Water Quality International, March/April 1997, p. 15.
41. IWEM Manual of British Water Engineering Practice, 4th edn. 1969, p. 168.
42. Sutcliffe D. W. and Jones J. G. Eutrophication." Research and Application to Water
    Supply. Freshwater Biological Association, Cumbria, UK, 1992.
43. Moss B. et al. A Guide to the Restoration of Nutrient-Enriched Shallow Lakes.
    Environment Agency and Broads Authority, 1996.
44. Palmer C. M. Algae and Water Pollution Report, EPA-600/9-77-036, 1977.
45. Bellinger E. G. A Key to Common Algae." Freshwater, Estuarine and Some Coastal
    Species, 4th edn. 1992.
46. Mouchet P. Potable Water Treatment in Tropical Countries: Recent Experiences and
    Some Technical Trends. Aqua, 3, 1984, pp. 143-164.
266   Chemistry, microbiology and biology of water

 47. Final Report to the Department of Environment, Transport and the Regions on
     Exposure to Endocrine Disrupters via Materials in Contact with Drinking Water,
     May 1999.
                                              7
      Storage, clarification and
          fi Itratio n of water


       Part I Storage, screening, sedimentation and clarification
7.1      Raw water storage
This may often be regarded as a first stage in treatment as it may involve a complex
combination of physical, chemical, and biological changes. Traditionally, raw water
storage has been regarded as a major or almost essential 'first line of defence' against the
transmission of water-borne diseases; this aspect is still of major importance if the
unstored water is liable to excessive bacterial pollution from sewage, even though such
pollution may only occur occasionally, e.g. if storm-water sewage overflows discharge into
a river. A few days storage of a surface water will improve its physical and microbiological
characteristics. This is the effect of a combination of actions including sedimentation,
natural coagulation and chemical interactions, the bactericidal action of ultraviolet
radiation near the water surface and numerous biotic pathways which help to reduce
enteric micro-organisms. 1 When a water is stored in a reservoir for a period from one to
several months, there is a substantial decrease in the numbers of bacteria of intestinal
origin and the specific organisms of typhoid and cholera also disappear. The die-off rate
for enteric coliforms, designated here as the time to achieve a 90% loss of bacteria or T90,
in lakes and other open waters varies from 2-3 hours in strong sunlight in clear waters, to
10 hours in more turbid waters. 2 A most valuable and practical management aspect of
having short-term storage is that a river intake can be shut down to avoid or investigate
any pollution which might, for example, be indicated by the death of fish or by other
information 3 such as changes to physical chemical characteristics of the water.
   Increasing risks to public water supplies from accidental spillages of industrial chemicals
in transit on roads and on manufacturing sites led to the Department of the Environment
(UK) recommending in circular No. 22/724 that water supplies downstream of effluent
discharges should be protected by at least seven days' storage. The intended function of
the storage was to allow closure of the intake until the pollution risk was over, to dilute
any polluted water entering the intake with clean stored water and to allow further self
purification to take place. By 1979 rather more than two thirds of river derived supplies in
England and Wales had received some storage in a reservoir prior to further treatment. 5
Such buffer storage is still desirable but it is now possible to consider alternative strategies,
particularly when economic or practical factors prevent the adoption of storage.
268   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

Alternative strategies might include catchment management, regulations to avoid or
reduce the risk of industrial chemicals being spilt in locations where they might enter an
aquifer or surface source, or protection of abstraction sites by continuous monitoring
systems coupled with the provision of an alternative source of supply. 6
   Water quality parameters for which there are electronic methods of monitoring which
gives stable measurements at appropriate concentrations, such as temperature, pH,
conductivity, ammonia or dissolved oxygen have been available since the 1960s and have
been in use by some undertakings from that time. 7 Incidents caused by accidental spillage
of compounds, such as phenols which cause taste and odour problems at very low
concentrations and were able to pass through conventional process works and enter the
distribution system before being detected, have led to the development of increasingly
sophisticated raw water monitoring. 8 Specific monitors for problem compounds such as
phenols have been developed and successfully deployed, as at the Huntington Works on
the River Dee (UK), where agricultural sources of phenol contamination require constant
vigilance particularly in summer months. 9 Often there was a need for monitoring but no
one compound could be generally said to be the main risk, as for example at an intake
downstream of a road bridge at which accidental spillage might occur. In such instances
fish monitors were traditionally proposed and have been in use for many years; in the past
20 years behavioural and metabolic activity monitoring of sensitive fish such as trout has
been devised and improved by rigorous research and development, l~ There are several
instrumental packages now capable of measuring soluble organic substances at very low
concentrations such as UV absorption or total organic carbon (TOC) which can be used as
general monitors to raise alarms when the background levels of such substances are
suddenly raised. Most recently the manufacturers of liquid and gas chromatography have
been able to produce reliable, stand-alone, instrumentation which together with facilities
for alarms and computer-driven libraries of traces, allows notice to be given of sudden
peaks and identification of the compounds within 10-20 minutes, which is usually
sufficient time to close down an intake before a water supply is threatened by irretrievable
contamination. ~l

Potential problems in raw water storage
There are potential disadvantages in the prolonged storage of raw waters which should be
taken into account when considering storage and the management that may be needed.
The most obvious of these is the likelihood of the growth of various forms of plants, either
rooted aquatic types (macrophytes) which may choke shallow waters, and free floating or
planktonic types such as algae (phytoplankton), which may increase the difficulties of
treatment. The main issues for water supply raised by the presence of these plants and also
animals have been discussed in Part IV of Chapter 6. Storage reservoirs that are less than
about 10 m deep can allow light to reach the bottom and in this may encourage the growth
of rooted plants unless the stored waters are sufficiently turbid to reduce light penetration.
Shallow reservoirs are therefore generally avoided if there is any likelihood that plant
growth could be high.
   Waters which contain sufficient nutrient materials to support prolific gro~vths of aquatic
plants are usually described as eutrophic. Lakes and water bodies exhibit a range of
concentrations from low nutrient conditions in upland lakes on igneous rocks
(oligotrophic) through moderate or mesotrophic lakes where a balanced ecology with
some shoreline macrophytes and a wide range of planktonic algae occur, through to
                                                                  7.1 Raw water storage     269


lowland water bodies which tend to be eutrophic and even hypertrophic waters where
prolific growths of plants commonly occur due to enrichment by sewage and where in
temperate climates there are usually seasonal peaks. The boundaries of these 'trophic'
classes have been defined for a number of parameters by the Organisation of Economic
Co-operation and Development (OECD) 12 and are shown in Table 7.1.
   In most reservoirs that are more than about 10 metres deep, and many are designed in
this way to avoid excessive plant growth, an additional complication is that thermal
layering or stratification may occur on a seasonal basis in temperate climates. As the water
warms up in the spring, the water being warmed in the upper part of the reservoir tends to
remain at the surface due to its lower density as it expands. In the absence of any strong
wind induced circulation the colder and now denser water below remains and ceases to
mix with the surface water. The upper and lower layers are known respectively as the
epilimnion and hypolimnion; in between there is a zone known as the thermocline in which
there is a relatively steep change with depth from the higher temperature of the epilimnion
to the lower temperature of the hypolimnion. In reservoirs averaging less than 10 m deep
thermal stratification in temperate lands is often only temporary, lasting for a few days at
most or broken down by evening winds. In colder climates there may be a winter
stratification due to ice formation which ensures the water body and its biological life is
protected from lethal frosts. 13
   Thermal stratification can clearly affect retention time of an incoming water and is often
of major importance with reference to water quality. In many large reservoirs, there are
facilities for withdrawing the water for treatment, at several different levels which can be
chosen as circumstances dictate. Multiple drawoff facilities have been discussed in Section
5.10. In the case of eutrophic reservoirs the ability to avoid drawing from surface with high
concentrations of algae is particularly useful, and this may be a further criterion in drawoff
tower positioning. A number of schemes have sited the tower some way from the shore in
order to avoid the build up of surface aggregations of algae that onshore winds can cause.
   In some large reservoirs the water in the hypolimnion is of a high standard of purity, as
well as being cool, e.g. in some places in Scandinavian countries, in the Lake District of
England, TM and in Lake Constance (Bodensee). However in eutrophic reservoirs organic
impurities in the incoming water or released by leaching from bottom muds and inundated
soils may accumulate in the bottom water. As a result of plant and animal respiration and
bacterial activity, the concentrations of dissolved oxygen fall and may approach zero.
Under such conditions major chemical changes take place in the transition from anoxic
conditions (when only combined oxygen compounds such as sulphate (SO42-) and nitrate


Table 7.1   Boundary values for trophic classes of OECD system

Trophic category     Average winter    Average summer         Maximum                Secchi disc
                     phosphorus 0zg/1) chlorophyll 'a' (#g/l) chlorophyll 'a' (#g/l) depth (m)
Ultra-oligotrophic    <4.0               <1.0                   <2.5                 >12.0
Oligotrophic          <10.0              <2.5                   <8.0                  >6.0
Mesotrophic              10-35            2.5-8                  8-25                  6-3
Eutrophic                35-100           8-25                  25-75                  3-1.5
Hypertrophic         ___100             >25                    >75                    <1.5
270   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

(NO3-) are present), to full anaerobic conditions when even these compounds have been
reduced to sulphide and nitrogen. This transition can be measured by redox potential*
which falls from + 200 mV when free oxygen is present to - 2 0 0 mV in anaerobiosis. The
important consequence for water quality is that under negative redox conditions
numerous other cfiemical compounds can re-dissolve from the sediments into the
overlying water. Iron, which is present as insoluble oxide or hydroxide, is usually the most
prominent of these substances but if manganese is present (usually as insoluble oxides), it
may also become soluble. Both iron and manganese are often in combination with organic
colouring matter. The concentrations of plant nutrients, phosphates as well as ammonia
commonly also increase in bottom water close to anaerobic sediment. Actinomycete fungi
often proliferate in these conditions ~5 and lead to tastes and odours in the raw water.
Under such circumstances abstraction from the hypolimnion for water treatment should
be avoided. Some authorities prefer to abstract this water for compensation flows to
'bleed' the higher dissolved contaminants from the stored water.
   When the surface water cools down in the autumn and wind action becomes effective,
the reservoir water mixes and, under normal circumstances, water from mid depth or
deeper is of good quality. Rapid mixing caused by strong autumnal winds can cause
sudden 'turnover' resulting in rapid deterioration in the quality of the water at the surface
in respect of colour, iron and manganese. A more gradual effect of the resumed mixing is
that the plant nutrients carried up from the bottom may increase the growth of algae in the
water and cause an autumnal bloom of algae. This is not uncommon in eutrophic lakes
and reservoirs and, often renders the surface water difficult to treat.
    Reservoir management to control stratification of reservoirs has been established
practice since the 1960s. Mechanical pumps have been used to induce mixing artificially
although this method has met with varying degrees of success. The systems have usually
been expensive to install and operate. ~6 These systems are intended to have a dual purpose
 of oxygenating the bottom layers of a reservoir and controlling stratification. Pioneering
 studies in U K by the Metropolitan Water Board iv'is (now part of Thames Water plc)
 showed that algal populations as well as water quality could be managed by water
 movement control. This approach led to arrangements for carefully controlled raising of
 cool low oxygen water from below the thermocline, using jetted inlets in those reservoirs
9which had pumped inflows, thus entraining the bottom waters (also low in algae) in the jet
 flow to the surface and increasing the amount of satisfactory water above it. This system
 was ideal in large flat-bottomed reservoirs where the bottom water volume is large relative
 to the surface epilimnion, but is not effective in narrow natural valley impoundments
 where the hypolimnion is small, and more vertically oriented mixing is needed. Air lift
 pumping systems such as the 'Bubble Gun '19 and the 'Helixor '2~ which make use of rising


*Redox potential or oxidation-reduction potential (ORP) is the potential developed in a cell between
a metal electrode (e.g. platinum) and a reference electrode during an oxidation-reduction reaction. It
is reported with respect to the potential of the hydrogen electrode which is zero. The typical range is
-1000 mV to + 1000 mV. Oxidising agents (C12, O2) increase the ORP, whereas reducing agents
(sulphites) lower the ORP. Therefore, it is used to determine the oxidising or reducing characteristics
of a solution. At high ORP ions such as sulphate, nitrate or ferric predominate whilst the presence of
sulphites, ammonia or ferrous ions in significant concentration are an indication of low ORP. In
aquatic redox reactions ORP is related to bacterial activity (e.g. oxidation of iron in biological filters
and reduction of feric hydroxides or oxides in lakes).
                                                            7.3 Band and drum screens     271


air bubbles in tubes to entrain bottom water and allow it to rise to the surface whilst being
aerated by the bubbles have been shown to be more effective than mechanical pumps. A
simpler and more economical method using compressed air was developed in the 1970s; 21
it is the use of perforated airlines laid along the bottom of the reservoir. 22 An alternative
air injection system using a number of ceramic domes, to produce fine air bubbles has
recently found f a v o u r . 23
   In some circumstances it may be beneficial to have an emergency bypass so that water
may be taken directly from a river instead of from a reservoir. This could be used in the
case of exceptional high algal growth in the water or of pollution having occurred, or
being suspected in water in the reservoir.
   Growth of plants can deplete nutrients from the water particularly if the growth is not
limited by light or grazing. Management of stored water to make use of this characteristic
has been carried out by Thames Water for m a n y years. 24 Water from the River Thames in
autumn and winter frequently has nitrate nitrogen concentrations which exceed the EC
Directive value (see Section 6.30) of 50 mg/1 as NO3 due to pollution from agricultural
runoff. Toms 25 showed that an empirical relationship could be used to predict the
reduction of nitrate by storage, and long-term stored water with low nitrate could be used
to reduce nitrate concentrations entering supply from other sources by blending. Thames
Water use storage in one of their larger reservoirs for prolonged periods to reduce nitrates
by the combination of algal growth and bacterial denitrification.


Screening
7.2   Bar screens
Practically all intakes are screened, even though the screens may be of the simplest type of
bar grille. The bars must be quite substantial in size (of about 25 mm diameter) and are
normally spaced at 75-100 mm centres. If the bars are inclined it is easier to clean them
with a rake which may be a hand rake for occasional manual cleaning or mechanical rakes
for continuous cleaning. Should a smaller mesh be necessary, it is best to group bars into
frames so that each frame can be lifted out of the water, cleaned, and lowered back into
position. To prevent unscreened water from passing through the intake when the screens
are lifted, they should be provided in duplicate or provision should be made for stop log
insertion upstream for temporary stoppage of the flow. At river intakes a great deal of
trash may collect; this is often seasonal with a spring and autumn abundance of water
weed and foliage. Screens may be provided with automatically operated raking
mechanisms to assist the removal of captured debris. Bar screens generally having
larger spacing will not arrest smaller size debris. In such cases it is advisable to install a
robust band or cup screen downstream of the protective bar screen.


7.3     Band and drum screens
If fine screening is adopted, some means must be found of continuously cleaning the
screens or they rapidly become clogged. For this reason fine screens are usually arranged
as endless bands or rotating drums of material perforated with holes of about 6 mm
diameter. Plate 13 shows a drum or cup screen and a band screen. The screening element is
in continuous motion and having captured and lifted debris from the intake water passes
over water jets which wash off the screened material into a trough. A pressure supply of
272   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

clean water is needed for the washwater jets, and this may have to be pumped from the
strained water. The total amount of water required for washing may be of the order of 1%
of the throughput. Fine screening must always be preceded by a coarse screen.


7.4      Microstrainers
These are revolving drums mounted in open tanks with a straining medium which is
usually a stainless steel wire fabric of a very fine mesh, fitted to the periphery of the drum.
The drum is submerged for about 75% of its diameter (66% of area) and rotates at about
0.5-5 rpm (peripheral drum speeds of 3-50 m/min). Water to be treated enters the drum
axially under gravity and flows out radially through the fabric, depositing particulate
matter. Cleaning is accomplished by a row of water jets along the full length of the drum
operating at about 2.5 bar maximum pressure. Particulate matter intercepted by the fabric
rotates to the top of the drum where they are backwashed into a hopper running the full
length of the drum and conveyed by a pipe which also acts as the axle for the drum
assembly, to a point outside. Water jets use about 1-1.5% of the total quantity of water
strained and this washwater should be filtered and chlorinated.
    Total headloss through a microstrainer unit including inlets and outlets varies from
about 150-200 mm. Single units have capacities of 10 m3/h to a maximum of 4000 m3/h
for a 3.2 m diameter x 5 m wide drum. A typical microstrainer installation is shown in
Plate 13.
    Microstrainers bring about an improvement in the physical quality of a water but there
is no change in the chemical characteristics of the water. The ideal water for
microstraining is a lake or large reservoir supply which does not contain a large
amount of suspended matter but which contains moderate quantities of zooplankton,
algae and other microscopic-sized particles; total algae removal ranges from 50 to 75%
depending on the size. When applied for the removal of zooplankton microstrainers are
located either at the beginning or end of the treatment process. Fabrics commonly used
with stored waters are made of woven stainless steel wires of 0.05 mm diameter with
apertures of 23 and 35 #m. However a coarser mesh at 200 #m aperture is sometimes used
after granular activated carbon (GAC) filters to remove eroding particles of the carbon
and any bacterial flora that sometimes develops in GAC filters. Attempts to use plastic
mesh materials have not been successful in water supply.
    When designing a plant specifically for the removal of algae it is important to undertake
pilot plant trials or, if this is not possible, laboratory tests to ensure that the microstrainers
are effective; this is necessary because of the wide variation in the size of different species of
algae or zooplankton and the difficulty in selecting the correct mesh size in advance.
Microstrainer manufacturers produce their own test kits which may be available for
extended testing on site as an alternative to pilot plant trials to select an appropriate fabric.
    Microstrainer operation is fully automatic. A microstrainer screen can easily be
damaged if too great a loading is placed upon it; hence head across the screen should be
monitored and an alarm initiated if it approaches the maximum desirable value. The
 rotational speed of the drum assembly can be adjusted so that the optimum differential
 headloss across the fabric can be maintained to achieve maximum removal efficiency
 irrespective of the quality or quantity of raw water entering the unit. Most installations
 have an automatic fail-safe bypass weir which forwards unstrained water when the screens
 become overloaded. This causes deterioration of the treated water at times of peak loading
                                                                       7.6 Plain settling   273


and illustrates why microstrainers are not generally acceptable as an alternative to
filtration by sand or other mixed media for potable waters. Their most extensive and
successful use in water supply has been to lighten the loading upon rapid or slow sand
filters such that the length of run of these filters between cleaning is extended thereby
increasing their output by as much as 50%. Comparison with roughing filters,
microstrainers (which have surface loading rates up to 80 m3/h.m 2) require less space
and produce lower headloss; their initial and running costs are lower. They therefore
provide a valuable means of reducing the solids loading on to filters, when for example,
installation or extension of filter plant is being contemplated. They may also be of
particular advantage as the sole filtration technique for an industrial supply (e.g.
67 M1/day Whitebull WTW, North West Water, UK) or for the artificial groundwater
recharge.


Sedimentation and settling tanks
7.5  General design considerations
Sedimentation tanks are designed to reduce the velocity of water so as to permit suspended
solids to settle out of the water by gravity. There are many different designs of tanks and
most are empirical. No specific rules can be laid down and many contradictory results
have been reported. A sedimentation tank which may be very successful on one kind of
water may perform poorly when dealing with a different kind of water. The success of a
tank may be judged on its ability to maintain the claimed throughput and the agreed
effluent water quality under adverse raw water quality conditions. An effluent quality for
suspended solids or turbidity of less than 5 mg/1 and 5 NTU, respectively, would be
acceptable to most designers. The amount of suspended solids in a water, the nature of
these solids, their shape and relative density, the extent of clarification required, the
temperature of the water, the rate of flow that must be h a n d l e d - all these influence the
performance of a tank. Therefore after performing laboratory tests using jar test apparatus
on samples of raw water, the best guide to selecting a tank for a particular water is to
research which type of tank has been successful before under similar conditions. This may
lead to the conclusion that there is only one tank design for the treatment of a particular
water, but this is far from the truth. The designer's task is to find the most economical and
efficient solution for all conditions of water quality, although it would be foolish not to
take due note of the type of tank which has been successful before under similar
circumstances.


7.6      Plain settling
In plain settling (or sedimentation), suspended solids in a water are permitted to settle out
by gravity alone: no chemicals are used. For this purpose the water can be left to stand in a
tank, although with continuous supply at least two such tanks have to be used alternately.
Such fill-and-draw tanks are seldom used in modern plants, except for filter washwater
recovery (see Section 7.45). Instead plain sedimentation tanks are designed for continuous
throughput, the velocity of flow through the tank being sufficiently low to permit
gravitational settlement of a portion of the suspended solids to occur. In practice the
application of plain sedimentation in waterworks is very restricted because impurities such
as algae, aquatic plant debris and finely divided mineral matter, do not settle at a rate
274   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

sufficient for a tank of reasonable size to be utilised. Plain sedimentation is most
frequently used as a preliminary treatment for fast flowing river waters carrying much
suspended solids as occur in the tropics or at intake works on water transfer schemes
where it is desirable to minimise the amount of suspended material passing into the system.
Under most circumstances chemically assisted sedimentation which is a more complex
process is adopted, as described later.
   The velocity with which a particle in water will fall under the action of gravity depends
upon the horizontal flow velocity of the water, the size, relative density and shape of the
particle and the temperature of the water. The theoretical velocity of falling spherical
particles in slowly moving water V (mm/s), is given 26 by


           V~
                    g     ( r _ l ) d2
                1.8  104            3'

where g = 9.81 m/s 2, r is the relative density of the particles, d is the diameter of the
particles in mm and 7 is the kinematic viscosity of water in m2/s, which varies with the
temperature of the water as given in Table 7.2. (The coefficient of kinematic viscosity (m2/
s) = coefficient of absolute viscosity (Ns/m 2) divided by density (kg/m 3) where N (newton)
is kg.m/s2.) This is applicable for Reynolds numbers of less than 0.5.
   A number of different (mainly empirical) formulae have been given for the settlement of
sand and soil particles in still water; some of the values derived are given in Tables 7.3 and
7.4.


Table 7.2 Kinematic viscosity of water

Temperature (~                     0            5           10       15              20        25
Value 7 (m2/s) x 10 -6             1.79         1.52        1.31     1.15            1.01      0.90

Table 7.3 For sand of relative density 2.65 in water at 10~

Diameter of particle (mm)                 Falling speed (mm/s) (a)          Falling speed (mm/s) (b)
1.0 Sand                                  100                               140
0.6                                        63
0.5                                                                          7O
0.4                                        42
0.2                                        21                                22
0.1 Silt                                    8                                 6.7
0.06                                        3.8
0.05                                                                          1.7
0.04                                        2.1
0.02                                        0.62
0.01                                        0.15                              0.08

(a)From Water Treatment Plant Design, AWWA, 1969.
(b)From Disposal of Sewage by K. Imhoff, Butterworth, 1971.
                                                  7.8 Maximum horizontal velocity of flow 275

Table 7.4 For particles of relative density (r) values 1.5 and 1.2

                                         Settling speed (mm/s) in still water at I O~
 Diameter of particle (mm)               Coal (r = 1.5)             Domestic sewage solids (r = 1.2)
 1.0                                     40                         30
 0.5                                     20                         17
 0.2                                      7                          5
 0.1                                      2                          1.3
 0.05                                     0.4                        0.3
 0.01                                     0.02                       0.008

Note: From Disposal of Sewage by K. Imhoff, published by Butterworth, 1971.



   Aluminium and iron flocs have a specific gravity of about 1.002, particle size as large as
1 mm and a settling velocity (at 10~ of about 0.8 mm/s (from Fair G. M., Geyer, J. C.,
Okun, D.A. Water & Waste Engineering, Volume 2, Chichester, John Wiley, 1986).
   Clays generally have a grain diameter of 0.01 mm to less than 0.001 mm (1 lzm) so that
it is impracticable to remove them from a water by simple sedimentation, or even by
filtration, without prior chemical coagulation treatment as described in Sections 7.11-7.24.



7.7      Maximum velocity to prevent bed uplift or scour
Apart from the settling rate in still water it is, of course, essential that once a particle has
reached the base of the tank it shall not be resuspended by the velocity of flow of water
over the bed. Camp 27 gives the channel velocity Vc (m/s) required to start motion of
particles of diameter d (mm) as

                (8/3g (r           1/2
         Vc - \-i-~        -1)d)


where r is the relative density, f is the friction factor in (4flvZ/2gd), ~ is in the range 0.04-
0.06 for sticky flocculent materials, and 0.10-0.25 for sand and g = 9.81 m/s 2.



7.8      Maximum horizontal velocity of flow
A third flow measure which must be taken into account is that the horizontal velocity of
flow must not be so great as to prevent, by turbulence, the settling of particles under
gravity. There is general agreement that this velocity should not be more than 0.3 m/s to
allow sand grains to settle. This is, of course, too high a velocity for the settling of particles
of light relative density (1.20 and less), but this is the figure normally used for sewerage grit
chambers where the heavier material is to be deposited and the lighter material left to carry
over. At 0.2 m/s faecal matter, i.e. organic matter, will begin to settle.
276     Storage, clarification and filtration of water

7.9          Theory of design of tanks
For a tank of length l, water depth d and width w, let the inflow rate be Q ( - outflow) (see
Fig. 7.1).
  Let a particle of silt entering the tank to have a vertical falling speed of V. Then

             speed of horizontal flow - Q
                                                      wd
and
                                                       l          lwd
             time of horizontal f l o w - ~
                                                     Q/wd          Q
  The time for falling distance d is d/V, and for the particle to reach the bottom before the
water leaves the tank the time of fall must equal the time of horizontal flow, i.e.
             d       lwd
             V        Q
from which

             v:__0 :__0
                     lw        A
where A is the surface area of the tank. Q/A is known as the surface loading rate and is
expressed as m3/h.m 2, m/h or mm/s.
  This is the limiting speed of fall to enable the particle to reach the bottom of the tank.
All particles with a speed greater than Q/A will reach the bottom bo.fore the outlet end of
the tank. Particles with a speed less than Q/A will be removed in the same proportion as
their speed bears to Q/A (see Fig. 7.1), e.g. if the speed V is only half Q/A then only half
the particles falling at this speed reach the bottom. Hence Q/A for any tanks is a measure
of the effective removal of the particles in that tank. For example a tank of 300 m 2 surface
area has a rate of inflow of 1.2 m3/s, then Q/A = 14.4 m3/h.m 2 (4 ram/s). Thus,
theoretically, all particles having a falling speed of 4 mm/s or more will be removed, 50%
of those having a falling speed of 2 mm/s, 25% of those with a falling speed of 1 mm/s,
and so on. Thus on this basis the performance of a tank is independent of depth and
retention time. This concept is the basis for the design of multi-tray horizontal flow tanks
and inclined plate and lamella settlers (see Sections 7.14 and 7.17).



                                              ...L         FlowO_.~,.    _b            ~
Particle X

                                                                                   i
                                                                                   I
                                                                                   I
                                                                                   I
                                                                             d Timetaken=--d
                               /
                                   /
                                                                                          V
                           /

                                                                              ~For             complete removal
                                                      ,


                                                                               -              7 -- --6"
                                                     Lbd                                              O
                 o                     Time taken     Q                 -~                 i.e. V ~ > ~
                                                                                                    A




Fig. 7.1 Theoretical flow through a rectangular sedimentation tank.
                                                                  7.12 Chemical mixing     277


   The foregoing theory, however, assumes that the falling particles do not hinder each
other, but McLaughlin 28 has shown in laboratory experiments with clay and aluminium
sulphate that the faster particles, settling through the slower ones, gather some of the latter
up and drag them out of suspension. This is the case with flocculated suspensions, where
during settlement, agglomeration of the particles takes place with time and consequently
particles settle much faster. Hence the performance of a tank in which this phenomenon
occurs is related not so much to its surface loading rate as to the time of residence. These
findings relate to still water. Thus, dependent upon the nature and size of the settling
particles, the range of sizes, the degree of concentration of the suspension and the amount
of turbulence, the performance of a sedimentation tank may relate to its surface loading
rate or to its residence time, or partly to both.


7.10     Grit tanks
In waterworks, grit primarily constitutes sand, gravel and other abrasive material and is
present mostly in water abstracted from rivers. If allowed to enter the works it could
damage intake pumps, settle in raw water pipelines and inlet process units. Intakes should
therefore be sited and designed to minimise the uptake of grit and tanks should be
provided upstream of pumps to trap the grit. Grit tanks are also used as traps for sand,
anthracite, granular activated carbon and other filter media carried over in used filter
washwater to protect any pumping equipment downstream.
   They operate as plain settlement tanks (unaided by coagulants) and are sized to capture
particles with diameter larger than 0.1 mm. From Table 7.3 silt particle of 0.1 mm will fall
in still water at 8 mm/s. The residence time in the tank should be at least 1.5 times the time
taken for 0.1 mm particles to settle to the floor of the tank. Grit tanks for sand removal
usually have surface loading rates of 10-25 m3/h.m 2, a water depth of 3-4 m and length to
width ratio of at least 4:1. 29 To prevent scour of settled material the horizontal velocity
must be smaller than the scour velocity calculated from the formula in Section 7.7. This is
usually about 0.3 m/s for sand.


Chemically assisted sedimentation or clarification
7.11 Chemically assisted sedimentation
This comprises several separate processes of treatment which together make up the
complete system known as 'clarification'. This system is designed to remove from a water
as much as is desirable, or possible, of suspended materials, colour and other soluble
material such as those of organic origin and soluble metals such as iron, manganese and
aluminium before it passes to rapid gravity filters. It is a delicate and chemically complex
phenomenon having three stages: (1) the addition of measured quantities of chemicals to
water and their thorough mixing, (2) coagulation and flocculation, or the formation of a
precipitate which coalesces and forms a floc and, (3) sedimentation.


7.12    Chemical mixing
Most chemical reactions in water treatment applications are completed within 5 seconds
and therefore the principal objective in chemical mixing is to obtain rapid and uniform
dispersion of the chemical in the main flow of water to ensure that chemical reactions are
278   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

completed in the shortest possible time. For example, inadequate mixing of a coagulant
such as aluminium sulphate can impair the formation of a good floc in the clarifier and
would result in poor plant performance which can only be corrected by using excess of the
chemical. The addition and mixing of chemicals to the main flow of water is a continuous
process and is frequently described as either rapid or flash mixing. The design of mixers is
often based upon the concept of velocity gradient and its value is used to express the
degree of mixing at any point in the liquid system. The velocity gradient G (s -~) is defined
in terms of power input by the following relationship developed by Camp and Stein 3~ for
flocculation:




where P is the useful power input (W), V is the v o l u m e (m 3) and # is the absolute viscosity
(Ns/m 2 or kg/m.s) at the water temperature. V can be taken as the flow rate multiplied by
the residence time in the mixer (see below). Mixing efficiency is directly related to the local
flow turbulence created and should give a high degree of chemical-in-water homogeneity
within a short time, with low absorption of power. Mixing designs should aim to achieve
the optimum combination of maximum turbulence and low power input. The methods
used for mixing can be hydraulic or mechanical. In hydraulic mixers all elements of liquid
within the mixer will be subjected to the same retention time, akin to plug flow and they
are suitable for many mixing applications. Mechanical mixers are mostly backmix devices
and when applied to a continuous flow system the elements of liquid within them have a
distribution of residence time. This is considered unsuitable for coagulant mixing. They
require long residence time to make allowance for short-circuiting and the head loss across
the mixing chamber is as much as that required for hydraulic mixing.
   Hydraulic mixing makes use of the turbulence created due to the loss of head across an
obstruction to flow such as from an orifice plate, pipe expansion, valve, or by a sudden
drop in water level such as when water flows over a weir or hydraulic jump. The latter is
usually formed at a flume 31 (see Plate 16) or constriction formed with the help of a chute
along a channel designed to produce supercritical flow under all operating flows; the
constriction is then brought back to the original channel width rapidly in a tapered
section. 32 The ratio of the upstream depth dl (m) to the downstream depth d2 (m) of such a
device is given by the following equation: 33

         d2 = 1 [(1 +8F2) 1/2- 1]
         d~ 2
where F (Froude number) = V1/(gdl) 1/2, V1 is the velocity upstream of the jump (m/s) and
g is the acceleration due to gravity (m/s2). For the hydraulic jump to form the ratio (d2/dl)
 > 2.4 and therefore F > 2. For F between 4 and 9 about 40-70% of energy is available for
mixing. 34 Hydraulic mixer efficiency is flow dependent. Mixers should be designed for the
operating range of plant flow rates, if necessary with facilities for taking sections of the
mixer out of service at low flow rates.
   When pipelines are used for mixing, a pipe of equivalent hydraulic length of at least 20
pipe diameters should be allowed. Static or motionless mixers are pipeline hydraulic
mixers with radial mixing employing stationary, shaped diverters which forces the liquids
to mix themselves through a progression of divisions and recombinations until uniformity
is achieved. These mixers comprise fixed mixing elements installed in a housing of
                                                                7.12 Chemical mixing    279


diameter the same as the pipe diameter. They can easily become blocked and should be
used with care on raw water particularly from river abstraction. They should be avoided
for mixing lime or caustic soda as calcium carbonate formed due to localised softening
could form scale on the elements. Chemicals are injected at about twice the velocity of pipe
flow at a point within 1 m upstream of the mixer and samples of the mixed solution are
taken at three pipe diameters downstream. Mixer unit should be designed for easy removal
for cleaning.
   The useful power input of hydraulic mixers is related to headloss by the equation:

        P = Qpgh

where P is the useful power input (W), Q is the flow (m3/s), h is the headloss (m), p is the
density of water (kg/m3), and g is the acceleration due to gravity (m/s2).
   In practice it is generally found that adequate mixing is obtainable with a headloss of
between 300 and 400 mm, in any case it should not be less than 250 ram. Static mixers
require a headloss of at least 600 ram. The residence time for hydraulic mixers (except
when a pipeline is used for mixing) is typically 2-3 seconds and a G value of about 800-
1000 s -1. For static mixers the G value could be as high as 5000 s -~.
   Hydraulic mixers are usually simple and particularly suitable where some headloss can
be tolerated. They have the advantages of having no moving parts or direct power
consumption, maintenance is therefore negligible. A disadvantage is that the efficiency of
mixing suffers if works throughput is lowered outside the operating range of the mixing
device.
   Mechanical mixing is achieved in purpose built chambers equipped with mechanical
rotary impeller mixers such as radial flow turbines or axial flow propellers. Typical
residence times are of the order of 20-30 seconds and the velocity gradient value G varies
between about 300 and 600 s -1. This gives a power input range equivalent of about 4-
10 kW per m3/s of water flow at 20~ and the value selected depends upon the raw water
quality, chemical to be mixed and degree of short-circuiting in the chamber. In
recirculation pump jet mixing about 2.5-5% of the plant flow is drawn upstream of the
mixing chamber and returned in a pipe through an orifice plate onto a plate in the mixing
chamber. 35 The resident time and the power input are the same as for the impeller type
mixers. This concept has been extended to pipelines where the water is returned into the
pipe against the direction of plant flow through an injection nozzle selected to give a full
cone spray. 36 Due to a tendency for nozzle blockage in raw water mixing applications
either clarified, filtered or plant service water should be used as the motive water for the
mixer. Mixing time and velocity gradient are similar to those for hydraulic mixers. In both
types of pumped jet mixers the chemical may be injected into the return pipe or at the
point of turbulence. Mechanical mixers have the advantage that they are not affected by
flow variations. To maintain a uniform velocity gradient at varying works throughputs the
power input should be varied by fitting the mixer with a variable speed motor.
   Pumps, in particular the centrifugal type, are good mixers. The lower the efficiency of
the pump the better the mixing; for example, in a pump of 75% efficiency, a significant
part of the 25% energy lost being in the generation of turbulence, can be used for mixing.
However consideration should be given to possible volatilisation of the chemical due to
low pressure on the suction side and hence corrosion of pump internals. For this reason
gases such as chlorine in solution should not be mixed in pumps and even for other
chemicals, materials of wetted parts should be carefully selected.
280    Storage, clarification and filtration of water

   Mixing is rapid when viscosities of chemical and water are similar and therefore it is
improved by applying the chemical in a diluted form. For lime, dilution should be limited
to 2.5% w/v and dilution water should be low in alkalinity to prevent scaling of dosing
lines. For a coagulant, it should be diluted to a level above where dilution does not shift
the pH of the diluted solution into coagulation pH range. Polyelectrolyte should be diluted
to about 0.05% w/v. Dilution is usually carried out downstream of the dosing pump.
   The method of injecting chemicals also contributes to the performance of the mixer. For
dosing chemicals into pipelines, single or multiple injection tubes or perforated diffusers
should be used. The injection tubes when used for slurries or with chemicals likely to form
precipitates should be of the withdrawable type. The nozzle velocity should be about
0.75 m/s or 50% of the velocity of flow in the large pipe, whichever is the greater. In all
cases the injection tubes are mounted in a plane perpendicular to the direction of flow and
in the case of horizontally laid pipes the tubes are inserted with their axes at 45 ~ to the
horizontal. For static mixers the injection criteria applied vary according to the mixer
manufacturer.
   Injection of chemicals at weirs or flumes is best achieved via perforated pipes (for clear
solutions) or channels (for slurries) running the full width of the weir about 500 mm above
the water surface and just upstream of the point of turbulence. Submerged perforated
pipes similarly located are used for gases such as chlorine in solution.



7.13     Chemical coagulation and flocculation
Coagulation and flocculation are essential processes in the treatment of most surface
waters; one exception being the application of slow sand filtration (see Section 7.38). The
two processes operating in conjunction with solid-liquid separation processes, remove
turbidity, colour, cysts and oocysts, bacteria, biological matter, viruses and many other
organic substances of natural and industrial origin. Some are removed directly and some
indirectly through attachment or adsorption on to particulate matter.
   The terms coagulation and flocculation are sometimes used incorrectly with the same
meaning, but they are in fact two separate processes. In coagulation the coagulant
containing the aluminium or iron (ferric) salt is mixed thoroughly with the water and
various species Of the positively charged aluminium or iron hydroxide complexes are
formed. These positively charged particles adsorb on to negatively charged colloids such as
colour, clay, turbidity and other particles through a process of charge neutralisation.
Flocculation is the process in which the destabilised particles are bound together by
hydrogen bonding or Van der Waal's forces to form larger particle flocs during which
further particulate removal takes place by entrapment into the flocs. Flocculation is
usually achieved by a continuous but much slower process of gentle mixing of the floc with
the water in one of the many possible types of plant. In the theory of flocculation the rate
at which it takes place is directly proportional to the velocity gradient and the same
equation as used in Section 7.12 for mixing is used for determining the velocity gradient G
for flocculation. In fact the equation was first developed by Camp and Stein for
flocculation applications and it is an inadequate parameter for design of mixers. However
in the absence of a better design approach it is still being used for mixer design. If the
residence time in a flocculation chamber is t seconds then the extent of flocculation which
takes place, or the number of particle collisions which occur, is a function of the
                                            7.13 Chemical coagulation and flocculation     281


dimensionless expression Gt which is given by the equation:

               1(7)1/2
         Gt=--0

where the symbols have the same meaning as in Section 7.12.
   For the common coagulants of aluminium and iron salts the value of G for flocculation
is usually in the range 20-100 s -1 with the residence times in flocculation chambers varying
from about 10-40 minutes. There are cases where flocculation times approaching two
hours have been necessary for waters of extremely high colour and temperature close to
0~ The value of Gt would be in the range from 20 000 to 200 000. The values of G and t
depend on the raw water quality (e.g. colour, turbidity, algae) and downstream treatment
process (e.g. clarifiers or filters), the type of clarifiers (e.g. dissolved air flotation) and
water temperature. Therefore each application should be individually evaluated by pilot
trials unless adequate information is available for almost identical conditions. In direct
filtration where the intention is to form a micro-floc, G values of the order of 100 s -1 and a
residence time of about 10 minutes are used. For dissolved air flotation the values used
are, G about 50-70 s -1 and residence time about 15 minutes for algal laden water and 20
minutes for waters with colour. Flocculation for sedimentation would require G value in
the range 30-70 s -1 and residence time between 20 and 40 minutes. For optimum
flocculation the coagulated water should be subjected to a decreasing level of energy with
time; the so-called 'tapered energy' flocculation. The G values quoted above would then
normally be applied in the first stage reducing to any value between 10 and 30% in the last
stage for two or three stage flocculation. The G and residence time values for the high rate
clarifier 'Actiflo' are 150-300 s -1 and 6-8 minutes, respectively and is usually applied in
one stage.

Types of flocculators
The agitation required for flocculation is usually provided by either hydraulic or
mechanical means. The most common hydraulic flocculator is the baffled basin in which a
sinuous channel is equipped with either around-the-end or over-and-under baffles. The
flocculation energy is derived primarily from the 180 ~ change in direction of flow at each
baffle. The around-the-end type is preferred due to the ease of cleaning. For the around-
the-end type the minimum water depth is 1 m and the head loss across the channel is in the
range 500 mm to 1 m. The residence time is 20-25 minutes. The distance between baffles
should be at least 500 mm and that between the end of each baffle and the wall should be
about 189times the distance between the baffles. The baffle spacing should be increased
gradually with channel length to achieve tapered flocculation. The floor of the channel
should slope towards the outlet. The advantage of the baffled basin is its simplicity
because there is no mechanical or moving equipment, and near plug flow conditions occur
with low short-circuiting. The disadvantages are that most headloss occurs at the 180 ~
bends and therefore the value may be too high at the bends and inadequate in the straight
channels for good flocculation, G value will vary as the flow Q varies (but this could be
partly overcome by providing removable baffles) and settlement of suspended solids in the
channel. When designing baffled sinuous channels some allowance must therefore be made
for water quality and suggested velocities to minimise settlement are:
9   for highly turbid waters                0.40 m/s
282    Storage, clarification and filtration of water

9     for moderately turbid waters           0.30 m/s
9     for water of low turbidity             0.25 m/s
Other hydraulic flocculators are helicoidal-flow, staircase-flow, gravel-bed and Alabama
types. 34 Hydraulic flocculation is also used in sludge blanket clarifiers and is described in
Section 7.16.
   There are several types of mechanical devices for flocculation, the most common being
the paddle type which is mounted either horizontally or vertically in the flocculating
chamber. Axial flow turbines are also a suitable alternative 37 for vertical type and is
frequently used for high energy flocculation. The power term in the velocity gradient
expression for a paddle type is given by the equation:
                       1
          P = FDV= -~CDpAV3

where P is the power input (W), FD is the drag force (m kg/s2), CD is the drag coefficient, A
is the submerged area of the paddles (m2), and V is the relative velocity of the paddles (m/
s) with respect to water; V may be approximated to 0.75 times the peripheral velocity of
the paddle or equal to 1.57rrn, where r is the effective radius of the paddle (m) and n is the
number of revolutions (s-l); p is the density of water (kg/m3); Co is about 1.8 for a paddle
flocculator. The speed of rotation of the paddles varies from 2 to 15 revolutions per
minute and the peripheral velocity of the paddles ranges from 0.2 to 0.8 m/s. For high
energy flocculation the paddle tip speed could be as much as 3 m/s.
   Flocculation chambers are usually made up of two or three equal size compartments in
series to minimises short-circuiting and to permit tapered flocculation. Flocculators in
each compartment should be fitted with variable speed motors with that in the last
compartment having infinitely variable speed facilities. The compartments should be
separated by either perforated baffle walls or over-and-under type which gives diagonal
flow in the compartment; the headloss across the baffle walls will produce a G value of up
to 20 s -1. The velocity of flow should be limited to 0.25-0.4 m/s depending on the floc
characteristics to minimise floc shear. The tank dimensions vary according to the type;
square plan with depths up to 5 m for vertical shaft type and long and narrow (at least
L.'W of 4:1 with a square cross-section perpendicular to the direction of flow) with depths
of about 3 m for horizontal shaft type. For good performance horizontal shaft type with
at least three paddles on each diametrical arm mounted in sinuous channels is considered
better as short circuiting is reduced. When one or more flocculation tanks is dedicated to
an individual clarifier, measures should be taken to prevent flocculator flow patterns being
transmitted to the downstream clarifier.

Performance considerations
Impurities which require coagulation and flocculation before they can be removed in a
waterworks by sedimentation and filtration can be of many types and origins, but broadly
they can be classified as either inorganic or organic material. The more usual type of
inorganic material encountered in water treatment settles easily, especially when it is of
particulate size; when plain settling is used one or two hours retention will usually remove
at least 40-50% of particulate matter and treatment with a coagulant such as aluminium
or an iron salt will remove at least 98% of the remainder. On its own a primary coagulant,
sometimes assisted by a coagulant aid, will usually remove 98% or more of the suspended
particulate matter for lightly loaded water with suspended solids not exceeding about
                                            7.13 Chemical coagulation and flocculation     283


300 mg/1, but such a removal rate may not be adequate for those river waters typical of the
Middle East, India, the Far East, and parts of Africa where suspended solids are regularly
measured in excess of 1000 mg/1. In such places it may be necessary to introduce a plain
settlement stage before chemical sedimentation or, alternatively, to have two separate
stages of chemical treatment and settlement in series because the quantity of solids in
suspension, and incidentally the sludge formed by the addition of chemicals, is too great to
remove in one stage of treatment.
   Not all inorganic matter settles out quickly in plain settlement and in some waters, such
as are found in Central Africa, it may be weeks or even months before any significant
settlement of colloidal material takes place. With such a water there is no option but to use
chemical coagulation at both the pre-settlement and the main clarification stages. Organic
colour and finely divided mineral matter, including various forms of clay, comes in this
category. Clay in water is a hydrophobic (water hating) colloidal suspension, or 'sol', in
which the surfaces of the particles are considered to have a negative charge which
contributes to the stability of the sol by helping to prevent the particles coalescing into
larger particles which would have a relatively rapid rate of settling. It has often been
thought that the excellent coagulating effect of aluminium or ferric salts is due to the triple
positive charge on the trivalent aluminium or ferric ion neutralising the negative charges
on the clay particles.
   The literature on the coagulation of clay and similar materials has been reviewed by
Packham, 38 who has also described his own investigations which have developed the
theories in a somewhat different direction. His experiments have confirmed that it is not
primarily the aluminium or ferric ions in solution which react with the clay particles, but it
is the mass of rapidly precipitating hydroxides of aluminium or ferric which enmesh them.
In subsequent work by other researchers this is identified as one of two mechanisms in
coagulation and is called 'sweep coagulation'. It requires excess coagulant and occurs in
about 1-7 seconds. The other mechanism is one of charge neutralisation of negatively
charged colloids by positively charged hydrolysis products which are soluble hydrated
hydroxide complexes of aluminium or ferric salts. The reaction is completed within a
second. 39 The presence of some anions such as sulphate (SO42-) helps the coagulation
process. 33 Sweep coagulation uses more chemicals and produces more sludge than for
charge-neutralisation, but removal of trace contaminants are better. The pH is an
important factor in coagulation. The minimum pH is that necessary for hydrolysis of the
coagulant and the optimum pH corresponds to minimum solubility of the hydrolysed
products. Typically for ferric salts the coagulation pH is greater than 5 and for aluminium
salts it is between 6.5 and 7.2. For coagulation of natural organic matter, e.g. colour,
coagulation pH values for ferric and aluminium salts are about 4.5 and 5, respectively,
whilst optimal turbidity removal typically occurs at pH 6-7.5.
   The US EPA has included in the Disinfection By-Products Rule a requirement for
'enhanced coagulation' for greater removal of natural organic matter. I t is defined as the
addition of excess coagulant, a change in coagulant type, or a change in coagulation pH
for improved total organic carbon (TOC) removal. US EPA proposes that enhanced
coagulation is applied to surface waters treated by conventional treatment unless, the
concentration of TOC in the treated water is <2 mg/1, the concentration of TOC in the
raw water is <4 mg/1 and the alkalinity is > 60 mg/1 as CaCO3 or the concentration of
chlorine by-products in the distribution system are below 50% of the maximum
contaminant levels (MCLs) when chlorine is the disinfectant.
284   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

   Polyelectrolytes (see Section 7.24) can be used as coagulants for waters containing high
turbidities and sludge conditioning. For example in the 1365 M1/day Karkh water
treatment works for Baghdad a cationic polyacrylamide is used to assist in reducing the
raw water suspended solids from 30 000 mg/1 to about 500 mg/1 in pre-sedimentation
tanks. In the subsequent clarification stage the same polyelectrolyte is used as the
coagulant aid to aluminium sulphate. For waters containing low turbidities they are
ineffective as coagulants because, at the very low dosages applied, the residence time
provided for flocculation is insufficient to produce large aggregates. They can however be
made effective by increasing the number of particles by coagulation using aluminium or
ferric salts. In this application polyelectrolytes are called coagulant aids and added after a
time delay of zero to 60 seconds (warm water) or up to 5 minutes (cold water) following
the mixing of the coagulant, but ahead of flocculation. This time delay is shown to be
more important for ferric than aluminium coagulants 4~ and found to be applicable in
particular to polyacrylamide type polyelectrolytes. Coagulation by polyelectrolytes
follows charge neutralisation or bridging or both. Therefore they would be effective
even when the polyelectrolyte carries a charge of the same sign as that of the particles to be
coagulated. Hence the best type of polyelectrolyte for an application should be determined
by the laboratory tests.

Effect of organic content and algae
The variety of impurities present in raw waters and their varying concentrations explain
the dictum that all waters are different and that water treatment is an 'art' as well as a
science. This particularly applies to waters whose chief natural impurity is organic in
origin, as these are very often the most difficult and obstinate to treat. Miscellaneous
fragments of animal and vegetable matter contribute towards the organic content, as does
the organic colouring matter derived from peat and similar sources consisting largely of
humic and fulvic acids and of more complex compounds, partly in true solution and partly
in colloidal form. The optimum chemical treatment for such waters is sometimes very
difficult to achieve, particularly when it is necessary to remove dissolved iron or
manganese. Laboratory jar tests are an essential tool in the formulation of treatment for
all waters. Where possible this should be followed by testing at pilot scale.
   Planktonic animals and plants, particularly the plants (phytoplankton) which are algae,
can cause a variety of problems in treatment. Their removal in microstrainers has been
mentioned in Section 7.4 and in Table 7.5 a short list of some commonly occurring algae
and their implication for treatment in temperate climates is given. They often occur in
large quantities in lowland and in eutrophic waters. Their removal by flocculation,
sedimentation, and filtration is basically similar to, but more variable than that of other
forms of suspended material because of the widely diverse types, densities, and shapes of
plankton. Some algae, for example diatoms which have silica in the cell walls, are notably
 denser than water. These algae and many other algae with large or simple shaped cells are
 removed effectively by chemical treatment. On the whole however plankton do not settle
 very readily when growing rapidly as they are buoyant because of oxygen gas in their cells
 and the coagulant dose must be increased to be effective. Many small celled types and
 those which are active swimmers, due for example to their flagellae, are often not well
 retained in floc and are liable to pass through the subsequent rapid filters. Conversely
 problems often arise, because of the tendency of algae to form dense blooms in lake waters
 and cause a rapidly increasing loss of head in the filters. The removal of planktons by
                                                7.13 Chemical coagulation and flocculation   285


Table 7.5     Organisms reported as having caused difficulties in British waterworks

                                      Difficulty experienced (r
                                      Blocking Penetration Taste Growth Unsightly Potentially
                                      of       of filters  or    in pipes, scums  toxic
Group               Genus             filters              odour channels         substances
Bacillario-         Asterionella      r
phyceae             Cyclotella
(Diatoms)           Fragilaria       t/
                    Synedra                                   v'
                    Nitzschia
                    Stephanodiscus              v'
                    Melosira         t/
                    Diatoma          r
Chlorophyta   Green unicells                    v'
              Chlamydomonas                     v'
              Cladophora                                            v'        v'
              Spirogyra
Cyanobacteria Anabaena                                        r               v'       r
'Blue-green   Aphanizomenon           I/                                      v'
algae'        Lyngbya                 r         r
              Microcystis                                     v'              v'       r
              Oscillatoria           v'         v'            v'    v'        r        v'
Xanthophyceae Tribonema              I/
Chrysophyceae Synura                            V'            V'
              Dinobryon              r
              Mallomonas             r          v'
Euglenophyta Euglena                            v'            v'
Dinophyceae   Peridinium             V'
Rotifers      Diglena                           V'
Crustacea           Cyclops          v'         r
                    Diaptomus                   r
                    Daphnia           v'        v'
                    Asellus                                         v'
                    Bosmina           r
Nematodes                                                           v'
Oligochaetes        Nais                                            v'
Insects             Chironomus                  v'                  r
                    Tanypus                     r                   v'
Filamentous         Sphaerotilus                                    v'        v'
bacteria            ( Clado thrix)
Iron bacteria       Crenothrix                                      v'
Polyzoa             Plumate lla                                     v'
                    Cristatella                                     r
Porifera            Ephydatia                                       v'
(sponges)           Spongilla                                       v'
Molluscs            Dreissena                                       r
286    Storage, clarification and filtration of water

coagulation and settlement can be improved by the use of a polyelectrolyte as a coagulant
aid and killing them or simply inactivating them using pre-treatment with ozone, 41
chlorine, or an algicide, 42 although both these latter methods have problems due to
toxicity of the residues, or in the case of chlorine the formation of trihalomethanes
(THMs), or other side effects such as taste and odour formation (see Section 8.32).
Without killing them their removal by sedimentation is about 5 0 - 7 5 % . 43 Some algae such
as blue-green algae (Cyanobacteria) are especially adapted to live in the top layers of
water, and the cells of these forms contain minute air vacuoles and are particularly
buoyant and difficult to settle. The dissolved air flotation process is therefore particularly
suited to blue-green algae removal because of the natural tendency for the algae to rise to
the surface. 44'45 The process can also be effective with other less buoyant algae, such as
some diatoms and is described in more detail in Section 7.18.
   Micro-organisms such as cysts and oocysts are readily removed by coagulation and
flocculation followed by filtration with or without clarification (see Section 7.43); a
removal of 99.9% should be feasible for bacteria, 46 although it is reported that such
removal efficiencies are achieved mostly in the summer months, reducing to 70% in the
winter months. 47 Removal mechanisms include direct removal by charge neutralisation
and entrapment in floc and through removal of particles to which bacteria are attached.
   Of the other impurities which are encountered in raw waters, it is far less easy to be
precise as to removal efficiency by chemical coagulation. In many lowland waters there are
to be found small but appreciable concentrations of substances in the run-off from
farmland, drainage from agricultural land and sewage and trade effluent discharges. Many
of these are organic substances and are usually classified as volatile or non-volatile with
many more subdivisions, as for example whether they are biologically degradable. Whilst
it is known that chemical coagulation flocculation, clarification and rapid filtration are at
least partially effective in their removal, in particular those proportions adsorbed onto
particles, there is a need for a high degree of removal by different processes. These are
described in Chapter 8.



Clarifiers
7.14      Horizontal flow clarifiers
Some simple types of settlement tank are in use for the clarification of flocculated waters.
For large volumes of water containing a relatively heavy load of suspended solids a
relatively dense floc is formed which settles easily, and in warm climates where the
viscosity of the water is lower thereby permitting more rapid settlement of floc, the large
horizontal flow sedimentation tank can be an economical solution for clarification.
Although a large tank is necessary in order to keep velocities sufficiently low to permit
settlement of floc to the base of the tank, its construction is simple because it need not be
very deep and few internal walls are required. In the simplest design of horizontal flow
tank, floc is allowed to accumulate on the floor of the tank until such time as the
increasing velocity of water above the accumulated sludge stirs up some of the floe,
thereby affecting the clarity of the effluent. When this occurs the tank should, at least in
theory, be cleaned out. Moving scrapers operated continuously or intermittently add to
the overall efficiency by pushing the settled floc to outlets in the base of the tank where it
may be drawn off as sludge.
                                                                   7.15 Design criteria   287


   Accepting their initial low rating and correspondingly high civil construction cost,
horizontal tanks are nevertheless versatile clarifiers, and modifications to an original
simple design to meet changing conditions of raw water can be fairly easily accommodated
if provision has been made at the design stage. For example, rotating flocculators and
sludge scrapers can be added, and some tanks have had their rate of flow increased by the
addition of inclined tube or plate settlers (see Section 7.17). Since the depth of a tank does
not influence its performance some horizontal flow tank designs use the principle of
shallow depth sedimentation, with a sloping tray so that the direction of flow of the water
reverses up and over the tray and exits near the inlet. Yet another variation is where the
depth of the rectangular tank is divided by as many as four inclined trays and flow takes
place in parallel streams between the trays. In this way the capacity of a single multiple
tray tank can be made to equal the flow capacity of a more sophisticated design of sludge
blanket or sludge recirculation tank. Flow in a horizontal direction is frequently
maintained in circular tanks so that after chemical flocculation, which usually takes place
in a central compartment, flow is radial and upwards to peripheral collecting launders or
to a combination of peripheral and radial launders. This type of circular sedimentation
tank is nearly always fitted with rotating sludge scrapers, either with the drive mechanism
mounted on a central platform or bridge or, with the drive unit mounted on the outside
wall and the scraper bridge pivoted on a central support. There are circular radial flow
tanks in operation in many parts of the world, particularly for the treatment of heavily
silted waters, and their use should always be considered as an alternative to rectangular
horizontal flow tanks for the treatment of such waters.
   In the design of rectangular or circular tanks for treating heavily silted water, the feed
water should be conveyed in channels rather than pipes to permit easy access for cleaning
of settled solids. The advantages of these tanks are: greater tolerance to hydraulic and
quality changes, ideal for stop/start operation, infinite turn down, simplicity of operation,
suitability for water containing high silt loads, and the influence of diurnal temperature
change on the performance is small. The primary drawback is their low surface loading
rate and hence the large area occupied and associated civil engineering costs. Also when
compared to rectangular tanks, circular tanks do not lend themselves to a compact layout.
One such circular tank design known as 'Centrifloc' is used for the treatment of R. Tigris
water at the 1365 M1/day Karkh water treatment works in Baghdad and is shown in Fig.
7.2. In this design water enters 18 No. 51 m diameter tanks through a 14.5 m diameter
annular flocculating compartment of 16 minutes retention capacity and equipped with
mechanical flocculators, and rises upwards and radial towards radial launders. A scraper
with a central drive shaft moves the sludge to a central hopper for evacuation under
hydrostatic head. The tank is operated at a surface loading rate of 1.7 m3/h.m 2. The tanks
receive water from a pre-settlement stage and are designed to treat a suspended solids load
of up to 2500 mg/1 and it has been successfully operated at values well in excess of
5000 mg/1.


7.15    Design criteria
In practice, a rectangular or circular tank does not work as efficiently as its theoretical
capacity would indicate. Normally it will only work at about 33% efficiency although, in
the case of chemically assisted sedimentation, the actual efficiency is generally much closer
to the results obtained by laboratory jar tests. Hence, in general, the size of a plain
288   Storage, clarification and filtration of water




                                                                                                  Flow measuring
                                                                                                  stilling


Section B                                                                                             Section B

                                            D~-.L-b-!




                                                                                                     Cable and
                                                                                                     piping ducts


                                                                                                             45.18m




                                                                             I n l e t ~                           holes
                                                                          channel
                                                                            Outlet ....... ...................
                                                                                            9 ~i, 41.080m
                                                                          channel
                                                     Motor control centre                                 Section A- A
                              Flocculator         r--/(/ Flocculatingzone Measuring
            43.97m                      ~         I~= l_n      /                     flume
               "     "    "   ""   "        - :                                    ;/          ~lnlet
        ~                1                              !~ ~       i           ~               ~    Outlet

                                                                                                     Drain



                                              Section B- B

Fig. 7.2 Circular clarifiers 51 m diameter for treatment of River Tigris water for Baghdad.
Engineers: Paterson Candy Ltd.


sedimentation tank must be three times the theoretical size to obtain the same results. This
is due to the difficulty of achieving uniform flow through a body of water. However by
careful design of the inlet and outlet to minimise short-circuiting the retention safety factor
may be limited to about 1.5. These design features include multiple inlets at about 1.5 m
centres sized to give an inlet velocity of about 0.5 m/s, perforated baffles at the inlet end
across the cross section of the tank with orifices of diameters of 100-200 m m to give a
head loss of less than 10 m m to minimise floc shear. Whilst these measures help, they may
have little effect when the temperature of the incoming water differs from that in the tank;
even if baffles do succeed in spreading out the inflow, the change of motion of the water up
                                         7.16 Sludge blanket or solids contact clarifiers   289


and over, or down and under such baffles creates turbulence which must subside before
the particles can resume settling under quiescent conditions.
  In horizontal flow tanks the horizontal flow of water should occur under laminar
conditions (Reynolds number < 2000) and short-circuiting and instability of flow should
be minimum (Froude number > 10-5). For tanks of dimensions l, w and d (m), surface
loading rate S (m3/h.m 2) and flow Q (m3/s), Reynolds and Froude numbers are given by

                  Q    l           3 2 12(w -+-2d)
         R e = ~ -  andF=
              w+2d7                g 1.3x 107 wd3

where 7 is kinematic viscosity (m2/s) and g = 9.81 m/s 2
   Horizontal flow sedimentation tanks for the removal of organic matter and light
flocculated particles using coagulants, have length to width ratios greater than or equal to
4:1 and, surface loading rates between 0.75 and 1.75 m3/h.m 2 which with a coagulant aid
may increase to 2.5 m3/h.m 2. The mean horizontal flow velocity should be in the range
0.25-1.0 m/rain. The flow over the outlet weir should be maintained below 50 m3/h per rn
of weir length and should preferably be about a quarter of this value. Alternatively, 90 ~ V-
notches about 50 mm deep and about 0.15 to 0.25 m apart may be used. Submerged
orifice outlets are useful in minimising the passage of floating material to filters. Orifices
should be sized to give a flow velocity of about 0.6-0.7 m/s with an orifice diameter
greater than 30 mm and head loss 35-40 ram. They should be about 0.3 m below the water
surface. To achieve the outlet flow, double sided launders are usually used. These are
placed about 0.5 m from the end wall (rectangular tanks) or peripheral wall of circular
tanks. Alternatively 'finger' launders of length <20% of the tank length (rectangular
tanks) or radial launders (circular tanks) feeding a collector launder are used. The depth of
the tank should be adequate for sludge deposits and storage; a minimum of 3 m is
recommended for scraped tanks and 5 m recommended for manually cleaned tanks (see
Section 7.19). Detention times for particles of low relative density, i.e. the theoretical time
of travel of water in the tank, varies from a minimum of 189hours to an average of 4 hours.
   For large circular radial-flow clarifiers the detention time can be as high as 4 hours, but
is more usually about 289hours. These clarifiers generally operate with rates similar to those
of rectangular tanks.
   Overflow rates in clarifiers are often obtained by dividing the daily or hourly flow by the
gross surface area of the tank. This can be misleading as it may not take into account the
area occupied by the mixing and flocculation compartments (where these are provided),
and the effluent launders, which usually account for at least 12% of the gross area. A
better guide to the true overflow rate is to take the horizontal clarification area available at
a depth of about 1 m below the surface.


7.16     Sludge blanket or solids contact clarifiers
Probably the earliest type of sludge blanket tank is that often referred to as the 'hopper
bottomed tank'. It is believed that the first of these tanks were built in India during the
1930s, with hundreds of them having been built since, mostly in places where there has
been a British influence. At the Johore River water works (Stages 1-3) in Malaysia serving
Singapore there are 126 hopper bottomed tanks each of 10 x 10 m plan and 10 m deep and
capacity 5.75 M1/day in use. The sludge blanket effect is obtained simply by allowing the
chemically treated water to flow upwards in an inverted pyramid type of tank with the
290   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

angle of slope usually 60 ~ to the horizontal. They are usually square in plan (occasionally
circular), although rectangular multiple hopper tank variations have been constructed for
large capacity works. As the water rises in the tank of increasing area, its velocity
progressively decreases until, at a given level, the force of the upward flow on the particles
is so reduced that it only just counterbalances the downward weight of the particles, which
therefore hang suspended in the water. Their presence forms a kind of blanket in the water
in which chemical and physiochemical reactions can be completed and in which a straining
action to remove some of the finer particles may also take place. While the top of the
blanket is very often well defined there is no distinguishable bottom to the blanket because
of the varying density of the particles forming the blanket.
    Flocculation takes place within the clarifier and is hydraulically induced as the
coagulant dosed water enters downwards and flow reverses upwards at the base of the
clarifier. Flocculation is completed within the sludge blanket through a process known as
contact flocculation. The concentration of the sludge blanket is controlled by allowing it
to bleed off from suitably placed 'concentrators' or hoppers. The hopper bottomed tank is
not cheap to construct as the total water depth, governed by geometry, is usually about the
same dimension as the side of the square in plan. During construction care must be taken
to ensure that the inverted pyramid is reasonably accurate and the inlet pipe discharges at
the geometric centre; if it does not, then streaming of the water to one side can occur and
this can upset the stability of the sludge blanket. Some sludge blanket tanks have been
criticised for the tendency of the blanket to 'boil' and this can happen particularly in hot
climates (see below) or where the tank is in an exposed position and subject to high winds.
However, the effect on water quality leaving a tank due to temperature boil is usually less
severe than that due to wind effect. The surface loading of hopper bottomed tanks is
within the range 2 to 3.5 m3/mZ.h, the lower velocity may sometimes be needed for floc
formed in the removal of colour from a soft reservoir water. 48
    In order to reduce construction costs there has been a continual striving towards
simplification of the tank shape, and the most recent addition to the sludge blanket family
is a flat-bottomed variety, usually rectangular in plan and illustrated in Fig. 7.3. In this
type of design chemically treated water is directed downwards onto the base of the tank
through suspended pipe 'tridents' before passing upwards through the blanket to the
surface collecting launders. The sludge is collected in hoppers placed at the top level of the
blanket and is removed under hydrostatic head.
    Another special type of upward flow flat bottomed sludge blanket tank is the 'Pulsator'
 (see Fig. 7.4) where a proportion of the incoming chemically dosed water is lifted into a
chamber built onto the main inlet channel by applying a vacuum of about 650 mm water
 gauge using a centrifugal fan and released into the tank. This creates a pulsing effect in the
 blanket. The frequency and duration of pulsation is varied according to the flow and water
 quality and typically would be of the order of 50-60 seconds and 8-10 seconds,
 respectively. These would normally be set to achieve a pulsation rate in the tank of about
 7-8 m3/h.m 2 for waters containing low settleable solids and 10-12 m3/h.m 2 for waters
 containing high settleable solids. Flocculation in flat bottomed tanks is induced
 hydraulically as the water enters the tank through the distribution pipes and is completed
 within the blanket by contact flocculation.
    Sludge blanket clarifiers are suitable for many types of waters, including turbid ones,
 provided that the particulate matter is of low density. A safe upper limit for turbidity is
 about 500 NTU and depending on the nature of the particulate matter, much higher (up
                                                                         7.16 Sludge blanket or solids contact clarifiers                                                                   291




Fig. 7.3 A flat-bottomed upward flow sludge blanket clarifier (Paterson Candy Ltd).


to 1000 NTU) peaks could be accommodated. Heavy particulate matter tends to settle on
the bottom of the clarifier. When used in such applications these clarifiers should be
provided with scrapers or other methods for intermittent removal of bottom sludge.
Alternatively they should be drained down and cleaned after the rainy season, or about
once or twice a year. In this respect, hopper bottomed tanks are more appropriate for
highly turbid waters. For heavily silt laden waters sludge blanket clarifiers should be
preceded by simple rectangular or circular sedimentation basins as described in Section


                               A                                                                                                   A

                                                           __~       _ Air exhauster                                                             ,,                   _ ~          Air exhauster




                                                                      Outlet                                                                                                   Outlet
        r-.~-~--~                      -        ~---                                                  ' ' -                              9                                 '           :f


i   9
         ':''~" 'i'i'''i'"
              .       .            .   l, .- ~~'I
                                            .          .         .          .      [ "" " " "" " '"'"~,,,,,"~ ".." .-..'-.'. : "ou,,e,,~,
                                                                                                  .    .   .   .   .   .   .     ~,,         .   .    .   .   .   .    .   .   .   _




                                                                                        "" L~----III~-                 --I'''~--       -- ~-- --'*'l---
           Inlet ~                     J                                                     Inlet--


First half-cycle: Air valve A closed and water rises in vacuum chamber C. Second half-cycle: Water in C rises to upper contact and air valve A opens.
Water in clarifier D at rest and sludge settles.                                   Water in C falls and enters D raising sludge which enters concentrator B.
                                                                                       When water falls to lower contact, air valve A closes.


Fig. 7.4 The 'Pulsator' clarifier (Degremont UK Ltd).
292   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

7.14. The surface loading rate of flat bottomed sludge blanket clarifiers typically vary
within the range 2-4 m3/mZ.h. They have a side water depth of about 4.5-5 m which is
typically made up of a bottom distribution zone 0.6-1.0 m, sludge blanket of 2.15-2.25 m
and clarified water depth of 1.75 m. In some designs the clarified water depth could be as
low as 1.0 m. In sludge blanket tanks, typically the blanket concentration is 20-25% v/v
(after 10 minutes settlement in a 250 ml cylinder) and 0.1-0.2% w/v, although with some
waters containing high settleable solids due to high colour and turbidity it could be as
much as 30-35% v/v and 0.25-0.5% w/v.
   The operation of sludge blanket tanks is somewhat sensitive to sudden changes in flow
and raw water quality and requires greater operator skill. They are not suitable for stop/
start operation. Restart following a lengthy shut down may take from 6 to 24 hours or
more depending on the availability of sludge from a similar clarifier for seeding the
blanket. Stoppages of 3-6 hours, can however be accommodated. There is also a
constraint on flow turn-down, which is normally limited to about 60-75% of the
maximum flow. The Pulsator clarifier because of its high intermittent flow can be operated
down to about 30-40% of the maximum flow. The performance of sludge blanket
clarifiers (and horizontal flow settling tanks) is known to be influenced by temperature. 49
The temperature effect is normally diurnal and is caused by the creation of thermal
gradients within the clarifier due to the walls of the tank being heated by the sun or by
warmer water entering the tanks, from an open raw water storage tank or an exposed raw
water main, giving rise to density currents within the clarifier. The result is disturbances of
the blanket and carry over of floc. Sometimes similar effects have been attributed to the
release of gases due to bacterial activity in sludge. The measures taken to minimise carry
over of floc are the use of polyelectrolyte as a coagulant aid or the inclusion of tube
modules in the clarified water zone, or perhaps both techniques. Intermittent chlorination
would help to overcome bacterial activity in sludge. So long as their sensitivity is
appreciated and they are operated intelligently sludge blanket clarifiers will produce a
good quality effluent (turbidity less than 2 NTU) and are very tolerant to changing
conditions of raw water quality which would be detrimental to the operation of many
other types of clarifiers.
    Apart from the sludge blanket tanks already mentioned there are many other types of
designs which endeavour to achieve the same high level of performance by providing extra
mixing energy for flocculation or by the recirculation of sludge, or by a combination of
both methods. Frequently the resultant design is something halfway between a wholly
vertical flow sludge blanket tank and a radial flow tank. Nearly all such variations have
 circular configurations and are equipped with bottom sludge scrapers, but operate as
 solids contact clarifiers. The essential feature is that the settled floc is used to seed the
 incoming dosed water, thereby accelerating the flocculation process. This is achieved
 internally (i.e. Accentrifloc clarifier) by feeding the chemically dosed raw water into the
 flocculation zone where it is mixed with sludge recirculated at about twice the throughput
 by the aid of a rotor impeller or externally (i.e. Pre-treator clarifier) where a pump is used
 to recycle sludge (about 20% of tank throughput) to mix with dosed water. These clarifiers
 can be operated at surface loading rates about two to three times of those without
 recirculation, similar to sludge blanket clarifiers and performing in a similar manner.
 Optimisation of performance requires some skill as they have several operating variables
 such as the impeller speed, recirculation flow, blanket depth and sludge withdrawal rate.
 They have a high mechanical plant content and are comparatively high in capital and
                                                                 7.17 High rate clarifi'ers   293


operating costs. At the 2015 M1/day Bhandup treatment works in Bombay, which treats a
stored water, solids recirculation tanks of 44 rn square with pump recirculation are used
for the clarification of water. The tanks are square in plan and have diametrical scrapers
with pantograph extension (see Section 7.17).


7.17     High rate clarifiers
Commercial competition between treatment plant manufacturers has provided the main
incentive for the development of new techniques for obtaining higher flow ratings in
sedimentation tanks. The maximum rate for a sludge blanket tank using coagulants is
about 2 m3/h.m 2, the upper limit with polyelectrolytes is about 4 m3/h.m 2. In proposals
for clarification it is important to check the probable performance at the lowest water
temperatures likely to apply when the viscosity of the water will be highest. This can be the
limiting criterion for performance.

Tube settlers
Some success has been achieved to increase flow rates through existing clarifiers by the use
of tube settlers, which make use of the principle established long ago by Hazen 5~ that a
settling tank should be as shallow as possible in order to shorten the falling distance for
particles. The concept of shallow depth settlement by multiple trays is still used in
horizontal flow tank designs in Europe (Section 7.14) and the use of all-plastic tube settler
packs is a logical development which helps lessen the sludge removal problem of wide
shallow trays. The 'tubes' are circular, hexagonal or square in cross-section, of hydraulic
diameters in the range 50-80 mm and made of plastic usually polystyrene loaded with
carbon black to protect against ultra violet light. The order of preference based on
projected area is hexagonal, then square followed by circular. 51 The tubes have a large
wetted perimeter relative to the wetted area and thereby provide laminar flow conditions
which theoretically offer optimum conditions for sedimentation. Laminar flow is not
achieved immediately when water enters the tubes, but after a transition length Lt (m)
given by the Schiller formula, 52 L t      0.0288 Re.D, where Re is the Reynolds number
which should ideally be less than 280 and D is the hydraulic diameter (m) which is equal to
4s/p, where s is the cross-sectional area (m 2) of the tube and p its wetted perimeter (m). In
the design calculations this transition length must be deducted. Sedimentation takes place
in the length following the transition length and it will retain all particles with a settling
velocity less than Vs (m3/h.m2) 53 (see Fig. 7.5) which is given by
                     V.k
         v~=
                       Ls
               sin 0 +--jcos 0

where, V - average velocity of flow in the tubes (m3/h.m 2) which is equal to U sin 0 where
U is the average upward velocity (m3/h.m 2) which is the surface loading rate of the settling
tank (i.e. rate of flow + plan area); L s - settling length (m) which is equal to L - L t where
L is the total tube length (m); k - a coefficient (1.0 for parallel plates, 1.33 for circular and
hexagonal tubes and 1.38 for square tubes); 0 - angle of inclination of tubes to the
horizontal; and d - depth of water in a tube at right angle to the direction of flow (m).
  When the angle of inclination of the tubes to the horizontal is between 55-60 ~ the solids
settled on the inclined wall of the tube leave the tube by sliding downwards under
294    Storage, clarification and filtration of water




Fig. 7.5


gravitational forces along its lower side, the clarified water flowing in the opposite or
counter-current direction. Most tube settlers have been used in circumstances where it was
desired to increase the flow through or improve the performance of an existing clarifier,
particularly horizontal and radial flow clarifiers and some sludge blanket clarifiers, so that
the increased flow rates achieved were still in the range 2-5 m3/h.m2. 54 In sludge blanket
clarifiers the clear distance between the tube pack and the top water level and the sludge
layer below is usually maintained at about 500 mm in each direction. The vertical depth
occupied by the tube pack is about 650-750 mm. An example of a sludge blanket clarifier
with plates in the clarified water zone is illustrated in Fig. 7.6. This design is used at the
408 M1/day Johore River water works (Stages 4 and 5) in Malaysia serving Singapore. The
use of tube packs allow an increase of about 1.75 times on the surface loading rate without
tubes; in essence the tube packs, which provide a much larger settling area than the
clarifier plan area, traps the floc carried over from the blanket when subjected to such high
rates. Major drawbacks with tube settlers particularly those in sludge blanket clarifiers is
that the floc carried over to the filters tends to be fine and may not be retained well in the
filters and that the clear water depth of only about 500 mm encourages algal growth on
the tube which, along with slime growth if allowed to form, would partially clog them and
affect performance. The use of the tubes helps to minimise the effect of thermal 'boiling'
and wind on the clarifier performance. There are few examples of proprietary clarifiers
where tube packs are incorporated into the design of new tanks.

Lamella plate systems
More recently the principle of shallow depth sedimentation has been extended to the
design of parallel plate systems, sometimes referred to as lamella flow clarifiers. Clarifiers
using the plate system are usually purpose built to take advantage of the high settlement
rates which can be obtained and the greater density of sludge provided. They require an
efficient flocculation stage which is critical for successful operation. The flocculated water
enters at the base of lamella plates and travels upward between the lamellas counter
current to settled sludge moving down (see Plate 15). Figure 7.7 illustrates the operation of
a lamella clarifier. In some designs the uneven distribution to the inlet of the lamellas is
corrected by introducing the flocculated water flow individually into each lamella space
via slotted openings in the side walls of channels running on both sides of the plate pack
along the length of the tank. Each space between the lamella plates therefore acts as an
independent settling module. The lamella plates extend the full depth of the tank and rise
about 125 mm above the top water level. Clarified water is collected by submerged orifices
                                                              7.17 High rate clarifi'ers   295




Fig. 7.6 Pulsatube Pulsator clarifier (Degremont UK Ltd).




or V-notches one between each pair of plates in decanting launders running along each
side of the plate pack. About 1.5 m is allowed in the bottom of the tank for the collection
of sludge which is removed by a scraper of the chain and flight or reciprocating type, to a
series of small hoppers at one end of the tank. For small tanks, hoppers could be placed
underneath the plate pack for collection of sludge. The plates are inclined at 55-60 ~ to the
horizontal.
   With this arrangement the settling area available is equal to the sum of the projections
of plates in a horizontal plane. Thus the settling area is very large on account of the
overlapping of plates but occupies a relatively small plan area. The total settling area is
equal to (n-1) L W cos 0 where n is the number of plates, L the plate length in water (m)
(after deducting the transition length, W the plate width (m) and 0 the angle of inclination
of the plates to the horizontal. The value of n should be determined taking plate thickness
and spacing between plates into consideration. The plates should be flat and not
corrugated and they are usually made of stainless steel but, sometimes of plastic. Plate
width is about 1.25 to 1.5 m and plate length is about 2.5 to 3.25 m including the length of
125 mm above the normal water surface; plate thickness is usually 0.7 mm for stainless
steel. The horizontal spacing between plates is varied according to the application and is
normally within the range 50-80 ram. Depending on the settling velocity of the particles
the lamella clarifiers could be operated at surface loading rates of 20 m3/h.m2 or more and
at about 40 m3/h.m 2 under exceptional circumstances and can therefore give a much
reduced surface area (up to 95%) compared with more conventional horizontal flow
clarifiers. This also means that the retention time within the clarifier is low, sometimes 20
minutes or less, so that control of chemical treatment becomes more exacting. Johnson
County water treatment plant (USA) of capacity 115 M1/day uses lamella plates for pre-
296   Storage, clarification and filtration of water




                                                                                        "'5




                      1
                    "-2"--..;
                          - ~   _   _   J




  1 Untreated inflow
  2 3 Flow into lamellae
  4 Treated flow over V-notch
      top of lamellae
  5 Treated water outflow
  6 Sludge collection



Fig. 7.7 Lamellae sedimentation tank (Purac Ltd, UK).




settlement of Missouri river water prior to softening. The settling aided by cationic
polyelectrolyte reduces turbidity from 2000 NTU to less than 10 NTU. The plate settlers
are designed to a settling rate of 2.5 m3/h.m 2 and surface loading rate achieved is about
20 m3/h.m 2.
   There is another type of lamella plate design which operates on the principle of co-
current sedimentation in which the flocculated suspension passes downwards through the
parallel plates, the sludge settling onto the plates and sliding down to the sludge collector.
The angle of inclination of the plates is about 30-40 ~ and the plates are about 35 mm
apart. Clarified water is withdrawn at the bottom of the plates and is then made to pass
upwards to outlet collecting launders on the surface. This design is used primarily in
industrial effluent treatment.
   An example of a sludge blanket clarifier which has made practical use of the plate
system of sedimentation is the 'Super Pulsator' (see Fig. 7.8). The clarifier has many
features in common with the Pulsator from which it has been developed and retains the
principle features of the raw water feed and distribution, and formation of a sludge
blanket. Parallel plates are located within the blanket about 300 mm apart, at an angle of
60 ~ to the horizontal and perpendicular to the sludge collection hoppers; coagulated water
passes upwards and sludge travels between the plates into the hoppers. The plates are
fitted with deflectors to create internal sludge recirculation and to thicken the sludge; it is
reported that the concentration achieved is twice that in a Pulsator operating at the same
upward flow rate. By this arrangement of counter-current flow and plates and deflectors it
is possible to obtain, with raw waters which respond to this type of treatment, clarification
                                                                                            7.17 High rate clarifiers            297


                              4             5                                       4       5




                                                                              ,[7       .    .   .   .   .          -El   IP-~
                                                                   n,    ',


                           I. ItI I,              111,1         I,, i

                                                                                                             _ ',' ,X:      ::




                   F ,~'J~o l i o ' = o ~L J ~ L O M O i t f a A l O ~        ------~---;- I~i}~.,


           1 Raw water inlet                     4 Plate system
           2 Vacuum chamber                      5 Perforated pipes for
           3 Perforated pipes                      clarified water collection
             for water distribution              6 Sludge discharge

Fig. 7.8 The 'Super Pulsator' clarifier (Degremont UK Ltd).




rates in the range 5-10 m/h with enhanced sludge concentration. It is also claimed that this
type of clarifier is capable of start-up in a matter of hours from a shutdown condition.

Other high rate clarifiers

In another high rate process a suspension of fine quartz sand (size range 50-135 #m and
uniformity coefficient of 1.6) is used to form a weighted floc of density in excess of 2.5 kg/1
resulting in very high settling velocities. In the process the coagulated water is mixed with
sand and polyelectrolyte followed by high energy flocculation (see Section 7.13).
Settlement takes place in flat bottomed or hopper bottomed tanks. The sludge containing
the sand falls to the bottom and in the case of flat bottomed tanks is removed by scrapers
to a series of hoppers located at one end. The underflow is then recycled at about 3-6% of
works throughput via hydrocyclones to separate the sand from the sludge; the sludge
discharge from the hydrocyclones is about 80% of the recycle rate. The recovered sand is
then made up with fresh sand to account for losses in the sludge stream and recycled to
'seed' the incoming water again. The process requires about 3 g/1 of sand which is
equivalent to about 0.08% of the volume of the settling tank. The make up sand is of the
order of 3 mg/1 and is injected either continuously or in larger quantities intermittently
(about once a week). Surface loading rates of 6 m3/h.m 2 and over have been achieved with
this type of clarifier. The process would remove Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts
like any other clarification process which follows coagulation and flocculation. There is
however the potential risk of returning some oocysts and cysts back to the process along
with the recycled sand. This aspect should be investigated by pilot trials. The proportion of
water lost as sludge can be about 2.5% of works throughput consisting about 0.1% w/v
298    Storage, clarification and filtration of water

solids. In the 'Actiflo' clarifier, by incorporating lamella plates in the clarifier rates in
excess of 25 m3/h.m 2 and sometimes as high as 60 m3/h.m 2 have been achieved. 55
The energy consumption of the process can be in the range 0.01-0.02 kWh/m 3 of water
treated.
   In the 'Sirofloc' process magnetite (magnetic iron oxide of specific gravity 5.2) in fine
particulate form (1-10 microns) is used as a ballasting agent to achieve high settling rates.
The magnetite is first 'activated' by treating it with sodium hydroxide solution and is then
introduced as a slurry of density 1.45-1.65 kg/1 into the water at a dose of 0.5-4% w/v of
the raw water flow whose pH may have to be lowered to 5.0-6.0 by the addition of
sulphuric acid. A period of 5-20 minutes contact in a tank follows, during which the
magnetite adsorbs destabilised colour and other fine colloidal matter in the water. 56
Aluminium sulphate or more usually a cationic polyelectrolyte is added to remove
turbidity and bind it to the magnetite. The magnetite is then flocculated by passing it
between the poles of a permanent magnet, and the floc thus formed settles readily to the
base of subsequent radial flow clarifiers rated at about 7-10 m3/h.m 2. Rapid gravity
filtration must follow the Sirofloc process. By re-treating the magnetite sludge drawn from
the clarifiers with sodium hydroxide at pH 11-12 and passing it through several washing
stages, magnetite is recovered with minor losses for re-use. The make-up dose to
counteract losses is about 2 rag/1. The effluent flow from the regeneration plant is about 3-
5% of the works throughput and has a high colour (600-850 ~ Hazen for raw water colour
of 50-90 ~ Hazen) and pH (about 12). It can either be discharged to a sewer or coagulated
with ferric sulphate, settled and dewatered in filter presses as at the 45 M1/day
Littlehempston water treatment works. The process was developed in Australia and is
primarily of use for a highly coloured, low alkalinity and low turbidity water. There are
about ten water treatment plants of this type operating in UK and Australia.
   The sirofloc process lacks a proper coagulation stage which is considered to be essential
for the removal of Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts in the downstream solid-
liquid separation process. However there may be other mechanisms occurring which could
also bring about their removal.
   The principal advantage of high rate clarifiers is that they occupy a small area, but they
need close attention and optimisation of chemical treatment. Most of them depend on
polyelectrolyte dosing. The retention time in some of them is very short and therefore
tolerance to changing water quality is significantly reduced and the sensitivity to optimum
operating parameters is significantly increased.


7.18      Dissolved air flotation
Dissolved air flotation has been of increasing interest in its application as a clarification
stage of treatment. It operates on the principal of the transfer of floc to the surface of
water through attachment of air bubbles to the floc. The floc accumulated on the surface,
known as the 'float', is skimmed off as sludge, as illustrated in Fig. 7.9 (see Section 7.19).
The clarified water is removed from the bottom and is sometimes called the subnatant.
Since rain, snow, wind, freezing could cause problems with the float, flotation tanks must
be fully enclosed in a building; some users enclose the flocculation tanks as well. There are
now several large plants operating in Scandinavia and other parts of Europe including the
UK. The largest plant in the UK is at the 450 M1/day Frankley water treatment works in
Birmingham and treats stored water for the removal of colour, turbidity and iron. The
                                                             7.18 Dissolved air flotation      299

                              FLOCCULATION




 CoagulatedRaw
 Water




                                                                                             ateclWater




                                                  ~                                ToSludge
                                                                                   ReceptionArea


                                   AIRSATURATOR                RECYCLEPUMP

Fig. 7.9 Diagram of a dissolved air flotation plant (Purac Ltd, UK).



plant consists of two streams each of ten, 100 m 2 cells of unit capacity 26.4 M1/day, rated
at 8.5 m3/h.m 2 and equipped with travelling bridge scrapers for float removal. 57 The
process is particularly suited to treatment of eutrophic, stored lowland or otherwise algae
laden waters and soft, low alkalinity upland coloured waters. 44'58'59 Although the process
has been successfully used for some directly abstracted waters, other clarification methods
tend to be more suitable for treatment of such waters especially when the turbidity
consistently exceeds about 100 NTU. 6~ Table 7.6 below shows some typical results when
treating algal laden waters.
   There is, however, some experience with eutrophic waters with very high counts of algae
where dissolved air flotation has not been successful, so that caution is necessary when
choosing the process. It should be noted that sedimentation can achieve degrees of
removal comparable to flotation, if algae are first inactivated by chlorination. This would
however result in the formation of THMs by the action of chlorine on algal metabolic
products.
   Flotation is preceded by a flocculation stage of the hydraulic or mechanical type usually
dedicated to each flotation cell. The flocculation tank should have at least two



Table 7.6 Comparison of algal cells in the raw water and remaining after coagulation and
sedimentation or flotation

Alga                            Raw water                Sedimentation                Flotation
Aphanizomenon                   179 000                  23 000                       2800
Microcystis                     102 000                  24 000                       2000
Stephanodiscus                   53 000                  21 900                       9100
Chlorella                        23 000                    3600                       2200

Data from        W R c . 42
300   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

compartments in series (see Section 7.13). Flotation is normally carried out in rectangular
tanks designed with surface loading rates between 8-12 m3/h.m 2 but rates as low as 5 m3/
h.m 2 or as high as 15-20 m3/h.m 2 have been used on some plants. 61'62 With such high rates
there is a risk of air entrainment in the subnatant water causing problems, such as negative
head (see Section 7.26) in downstream filtration processes. This can be overcome by
installing lamellas in the subnatant section where, as the water flows down the lamellas,
the entrained air is released and rises, counter-current to the water flow to the float. 63 The
solids loading can vary in the range 4-15 kg dry solids/mZ.h. Typical tank depth is 2-3 m
and the preferred length:width ratio is 2-2.5:1 with lengths up to 15 m using end-feed of
air or 20 m with centre-feed of air. The retention time in the flotation tank is between 10-
20 minutes.
   For effective flotation the quantity of air required is about 6-10 g/m 3 of water treated
and requires a recycle flow rate of a b o u t 6-15% which is dependent on water
temperature. 64 Some designers determine the air dose from the weight ratio of air to
suspended solids of about 0.1:1. Recycle water should be of at least clarified water quality
and, in the case of a packed column absorber, preferably filtered water. ~Oil-free
compressors are preferred but not essential for the air supply. Air is dissolved in recycle
water under pressure either in pressure vessels equipped with an eductor on the inlet side
for adding air or a packed column; the operating pressures of the two respective saturator
systems are 6-7 bar and 3.5-5 bar. In packed columns a packing depth of 0.8 to 1.2 m of
25 mm polypropylene Pall or Rashig rings are used. The hydraulic loading rate of the air
dissolving units lies in the range 50-80 m3/h.m 2. Saturator efficiency* for packed column
type is about 90-95% whilst that for unpacked type is about 65-75%. 65 Air saturated
water is returned to the flotation tank through a series of nozzles or needle valves to give a
sudden reduction in pressure and release of air bubbles in a white water curtain. Typically
bubble size ranges from 10 to 100 #m with a mean diameter of 40/~m.66 The outlets are
usually spaced at 0.3-0.6 m for needle valves and 0.1 to 0.3 m for nozzles. 67
   In plants where there is a need for raw water ozonation and flotation, the two processes
could be combined with air in the flotation process being replaced by an ozone-air or
ozone-oxygen mixture. 68'69'7~
    Since the clarified water is taken from the bottom of the tank in the flotation process it
could be combined with rapid gravity filtration in one tank with the flotation section
placed above the filters. Therefore the surface loading rates of the two processes need to be
the same. 'COCO D A F F ' (counter-current dissolved air flotation filtration) is an
innovative combined flotation-filtration design in which air and water flow counter-
current as against co-current in the conventional dissolved air flotation process (Fig. 7.10
 and Plate 16). Air is introduced with recycle water across the total tank sectional area
 depth. It is claimed that this arrangement gives better particle-bubble interaction. 7~ The
 process combines flotation and gravity filtration in one tank and uses a group of
 flocculation tanks common to all of the flotation cells.




                                     amount of air measured in the recycle water
         *Saturator efficiency =                                                        100
                                   amount of air that could be dissolved theoretically
                                                    7.19 Sludge removalfrom clarifiers 301

                                                           Inlet distribution cones

           Scum channel
                      \                   Scum
                                          weir


                                                                                               Surface
                                                                                               flush
                                                                                               channel
Scum
outlet                                                                                Air
                                                                                      scour
                                                                                                Inlet
Washout                                                                                         channel
                               ~ /          ~       ~
ch
                                                              ::.:                      Backwash
                                                                                        water




                                                                                           Filter outlet
                      /                                                  \
                     Air saturated water pipe                                Outlet duct


Fig. 7.10 Typical arrangement of COCO-DAFF unit (Paterson Candy Ltd).


   Computational fluid dynamics is used to model the flotation process. It is used to
simulate basin geometries and to study the effect of changes in process parameters and as
is such becoming a valuable tool for design, optimisation and trouble shooting.
   The flotation process is suitable for stop/start operation and has a flow turndown of
about 30%. The former is one of its advantages when dealing with a water subject to high
algal loadings; a plant can be 'switched in' as and when needed and will give a steady
quality treated water within 45 minutes. 59 Apart from the drawbacks common to all high
rate clarifiers, the flotation process has high energy requirements (about 0.05-0.075 kWh/
m 3 of water treated).



7.19      Sludge removal from clarifiers
Effective removal of sludge is very important for the efficient operation of clarifiers, but it
is a subject frequently overlooked by designers. With a raw water having suspended solids
not greater than about 250 rag/1- most waters used in the UK fall in this category- the
sludge volume to be removed from the tank should not exceed about 2.5% of throughput.
For raw waters having solids of about 1000 rag/1 the sludge may be as high as 5-10% by
volume of throughput; for very silty waters the sludge may have to be removed
continuously in order to maintain the tanks in operation, even at a reduced output, and
maintain an acceptable water quality. Under such conditions output may have to be
reduced and the sludge volume can be as much as 20-25% of throughput. Special
measures for sludge removal must obviously be provided for heavily silted waters and, for
302   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

those having above 1000 mg/1 solids or possibly less, depending on the nature of the solids,
it is necessary to provide scraping equipment for all designs if throughput and quality are
to be maintained. Scrapers move sludge to a series of hoppers located at the inlet end of
rectangular tanks or in the centre or periphery of circular tanks. The floor of the tank
should have a slope. Hoppers are of an inverted pyramid shape with an included angle of
about 60 ~. Sludge is removed from hoppers individually under hydrostatic head using the
full water depth in the tank. Scrapers used in rectangular tanks depend on the tank
geometry and are travelling bridge with or without suction headers (for tanks up to 25 
75 m), chain and flight or cable hauled type (for tanks up to 6  50 m). Bridge scrapers
with suction headers (speeds varying from 1.0 to 2.0 m/min) and chain and flight type
(speeds less than 0.5 m/min) are suitable for tanks treating heavily silted waters. The speed
of bridge scrapers without suction headers are 0.5-1.0 m/min for scraping and about
2.5 m/rain for the return.
    Circular tanks have radial or diametrical scrapers with the bridge supported from the
centre and driven with a central or peripheral drive unit. In larger tanks, support is also
provided by a travelling wheel on the outside wall. The peripheral speed of the scraper is
about 1.0-2.0 m/min. In some square tanks, corners are curved on the bottom and the
scraper is then arranged to fold back on itself when traversing the four sides (e.g. solids
recirculation type clarifiers at the Bhandup water treatment works, Bombay). Some
circular tank designs include a suction header similar to the rectangular tanks. Tanks
employing suction headers draw sludge from points just in front of the scraper blades or
squeegees using pumps mounted on the bridge at an approximate rate of 2 1/s.m of tank
width or radius; others are aided by submersible pumps or down pipes acting as ejectors.
The floors of scraped circular tanks have slopes of about 1:10-1:20 and those of scraped
rectangular tanks have slopes of about 1:300-1:500. Rectangular tanks equipped with
suction headers do not require a slope except for drainage. Unscraped rectangular tanks
usually have a cross fall of about 1:10 to a central channel running the length of the tank
 and a longitudinal fall of 1:200. By including high pressure water jets (at 3.5-4 bar) for
cleaning the slope could be reduced to about 1:250. Valves for sludge removal are always
 better placed outside the walls of the tank. Both valves and pipework should be adequately
 sized to pass the maximum sludge withdrawal rate, which can be 400% or 500% greater
 than the average rate. The valves should be of the full bore type like plug valves.
    Sludge removal from blanket tanks is generally easier than with other designs, although
 the same rules for valve and pipe sizing must be used. Certainly the positioning of sludge
 hoppers can be less critical than with other designs as a sludge blanket is in continual
 movement and will migrate towards the space left by evacuated sludge. Hoppers usually
 cover about 10-15% of the total settling area of the tank. The hydrostatic head available
 for sludge removal is limited to the clarified water depth (1-1.75 m). Many attempts have
 been made to improve the efficiency of sludge removal and concentration. Some sludge
 removal systems operate continuously, but this is usually wasteful except in the case of
 high suspended solids waters. Nowadays, even in what may be essentially a manually
 operated works, sludge removal is usually operated by an automatic system having
 adjustable timers for varying the duration of opening of sludge discharge valves at pre-
 selected but adjustable time intervals. Sludge should be withdrawn from hoppers
 individually; manifolding hopper outlets to allow for simultaneous withdrawal is not
 recommended.
                          7.20 Chemical dosing equipment and treatment works layout        303


   Some success has been obtained using photoelectric cells for the detection of sludge
build-up, but this method is unlikely to work for heavily silted waters. However, a method
which has met with considerable success over the last few years is one patented and
developed by Paterson Candy Ltd, and relies upon sensing the differential weight of
concentrated sludge in water. The equipment is shown in Fig. 7.3 and consists of several
flexible sludge cones suspended in water and one of which (called the pilot cone) is
connected by a cable to a load cell. The load cell is sufficiently sensitive that when the
weight of the sludge reaches a pre-set value (usually when the cone is about two-thirds full
of sludge) then the load cell initiates the opening of the desludging valve on all the cone
outlets.
   In flotation tanks, sludge or the float collects on the water surface and is removed by
mechanical or hydraulic means, or a combination of the two. Mechanical units are
scrapers of the chain and flight, reciprocating or bridge type and the choice is made
primarily on the tank dimensions. All types are known to cause 'knock down' of float
solids; a process where subnatant water is contaminated with the sludge as a result of
deaeration of the float due to the disturbances caused by the activities of the scrapers. In
hydraulic desludging the subnatant water drawoff is restricted intermittently to raise the
water level in the cell until the sludge layer overflows into a collection trough. This method
produces sludge of low concentration compared to mechanical methods.


7.20     Chemical dosing equipment and treatment works layout
 Chemical dosing plant comprises- storage facilities, solution or slurry preparation tanks,
and chemical metering and conveying systems. It is usual for storage facilities to be sized
for 30 days' demand at average dose and normal flow rate, or the size of one consignment
plus the demand for the period between placing the order and receiving a delivery. Longer
storage may be required for locations where access is affected by bad weather or chemicals
have to be imported. Properties of some of the commonly used chemicals in water
treatment are given in Table 7.7.
     Most chemicals are made up into standard solutions or suspensions in batches; at least
two batching tanks are required for each chemical in order to maintain continuity of
dosing; additional tanks would allow maintenance and cleaning without interruptions to
dosing. Each tank is normally sized so that one or two batches are prepared in a work
shift. Accurate batching and dilution, with proper mixing, is required to maintain constant
strengths for metered injection of chemicals. Solution strengths can be up to saturation
concentration (e.g. aluminium sulphate); suspensions such as lime and powdered activated
carbon (PAC) need to be maintained at a value of less than 10% w/v and must be
continuously stirred. Concentration of batches must be checked for accuracy by using a
hydrometer or chemical analysis.
    The use of lime as a slurry for final pH correction increases the turbidity of the filtered
water by up to 1 NTU depending on the proportion of impurities in lime and hence the
lime dose. This can be overcome either by using caustic soda or a saturated solution of
lime. Lime is usually prepared in saturators which are continuous upward flow hopper
bottomed tanks with water fed from the bottom and lime water drawn from the top.
Surface loading rates range from 1 to 1.2 m3/h.m 2. In some designs, rates of 2.5-5.0 m3/
h . m 2 a r e achieved by using a turbine mixer to improve contact between lime and water,
adding a polytrelectrolyte to improve settling rate, and lamella plates to increase settling
Table 7.7   Properties of some chemicals commonly used in water treatment (see Table 7.8 for coagulants and Chapter 9 for other chemicals)

                                                                                                  Freezing                                Dosing
Chemical         Function         Form          Density              Materials                    point       Storage                     concentration
Hydrated lime    pH correction    White fine    480 kg/m 3 (b)       Steels, thermoplastics                   Bags (25 kg, 50 kg)         > 2.5% w/v
96% w/w (a)                       powder        400 kg/m 3 (c)       (*A1, tin, Zn, brass,                    on pallets, steel silos     < 10% w/v (e)
Ca(OH)2                                         1.81 m3/t (d)        galvanised steel)                        (see Figure 7.11)
Hydrated lime    pH correction    Milky white   1.11 g/ml            (As for hydrated lime)       0oc         Vertical steel or           2.5% w/v to
17% w/w                           liquid                                                                      thermoplastic tanks         neat
Ca(OH)2                                                                                                       with mixers or
                                                                                                              recirculation pumps
Quicklime (f)    pH correction    Hygroscopic    1230 kg/m 3 (b)     (As for hydrated lime)                   Bags (25 kg, 50 kg)         Slaked to form
95% w/w                           powder                                                                      on pallets, steel silos     hydrated lime
CaO                                                                                                                                       > 2.5% w/v
                                                                                                                                          <10% w/v
Powdered         Organics         Powder        410-600 kg/m 3       Stainless steel (304, 306)               Bags (25 kg, 50 kg)         <10% w/v
activated        removal,                       (depending on        rubber/mild steel (for                   on pallets, 450 kg
carbon           dechlorination                 the grade) (b)       slurry), thermoplastics                  bags, 1000 kg bins or
                                                375-500 kg/m 3 (c)                                            steel silos (epoxy paint
                                                                                                              coated) (see Figure
                                                                                                              7.11)
Sodium           pH correction    Anhydrous     550 kg/m 3 (b)       (As for hydrated lime)                   Bags (25 kg, 50 kg)         5% w/v
carbonate                         crystalline                                                                 on pallets or steel silos   (temperate)
(light grade)                     powder                                                                                                  20% w/v
95% w/w                                                                                                                                   (tropics)
Na2CO3
Potassium        Oxidation        Granular      1600 kg/m 3          Steels, thermoplastics                   Kegs (50 kg), 150 kg        1.5 to 3% w/v;
permanganate                                                         (*Zn, Cu, AI, galvanised                 drums                       solubility 6%
                                                                     steel, rubber)                                                       w/v at 20~
Sulphuric acid   pH correction    Corrosive     1.84 g/ml at         Steels, PTFE (* most         (i) 3~      Carboys (45 l), steel       Neat or 10%
(i) 98% w/w                       liquid        20~                  other metals)                (ii) -10~   horizontal pressure         W/W H2SO4
H2SO4 (g)                                                                                                     vessels or steel vertical
(ii) 95% w/w                                                                                                  tanks (lagged for 98%
H2SO4 (g)                                                                                                     w/w as applicable)

                                                                                                                                          (Continued)
Table 7.7 (continued) Properties of some chemicals commonly used in water treatment (see Table 7.8 for coagulants and Chapter 9 for other chemicals)

                                                                                                     Freezing                                 Dosing
Chemical            Function         Form           Density         Materials                        point        Sto rage                    co ncentration
Sulphuric acid      pH correction    Corrosive      1.4 g/ml at     Thermoplastics,                      -37~     Carboys (45 1),             10% w/w to
50% w/w                              liquid         15.5~           rubber/steel                                  PVC/GRP or rubber/          neat
H2804                                                                                                             mild steel vertical tanks
Caustic soda        pH correction    Corrosive      1.497 g/ml at   Steels, thermoplastics,          8~           Carboys (45 1) steel        Neat or 20%
47% w/w                              liquid         20~             rubber, Ni and Ni alloys         (-25~ for    horizontal pressure         w/w NaOH
NaOH                                                                (T <150~ (*A1, Tin, Zn,          20% w/w      vessel or steel or
                                                                    galvanised steel, brass)         NaOH)        thermoplastic, PVC/GRP
                                                                                                                  vertical tanks (heated
                                                                                                                  and lagged as applicable)
Hexafluorosilicic   Fluoridation     Corrosive      1.18 g/ml at    Thermoplastics (PE, PP,          -    11.6~   Horizontal or vertical      Neat or
acid                                 liquid.        20~             uPVC), Neoprene rubber/                       rubber/mild steel or        diluted to
20% w/w H2SiF6                       Highly toxic                   steel (*Glass, stainless steel                thermoplastic vertical      suit (i)
(15.8% w/w F)                                                       (304, 316), A1, brass,                        tanks
                                                                    bronze, mild steel)
Sodium              Fluoridation     Crystalline    1400 kg/m 3     Thermoplastics, rubber                        Bags (20 kg, 50 kg) on      0.2% w/v (h)
silicofluoride                       powder.                        lined mild steel                              pallets, steel silos
98% w/w                              Highly toxic
Na2SiF6 (59.4%
w/w F)
Orthophosphoric     Plumbosolvency   Corrosive      1.585 g/ml at   Stainless steel (316),           -18~         Lined steel drums           Neat or
acid                control          liquid         15.5~           thermoplastics (*mild steel,                  (45 1, 200 1), horizontal   diluted to suit (h)
75% w/w H3PO4                                                       cast iron, A1, Al-alloys,                     or vertical stainless
(24% w/w P)                                                         brasses, tinned or                            steel or rubber/steel or
                                                                    galvanised)                                   vertical HDPE or
                                                                                                                  PVC/GRP tanks

                                                                                                                                                    (Continued)
Table 7.7 (continued)   Properties of some chemicals commonly used in water treatment (see Table 7.8 for coagulants and Chapter 9 for other chemicals)

                                                                                                      Freezing                                Dosing
Chemical                Function          Form          Density          Materials                    point      Storage                      concentration
Orthophosphates         Plumbosolvency    Crystalline   (i) 1200 kg/m 3 Thermoplastics, stainless                Bags (50 kg)                 (i) 40% w/v (h)
(i) mono sodium         control           powders       (ii) 1200 kg/m 3 steel (304, 316), rubber/                                            (ii) 15% w/v (h)
(20% w/w P)                                             (iii) 900 kg/m 3 steel (*mild steel, AI)                                              (iii) 20% w/v (h)
(ii) di sodium
(17% w/w P)
(iii) tri sodium
(8% w/w P)
Sodium                  Disinfection      Hazardous     1.27 g/ml at     Thermoplastics (PE, PVC,     -17~       Carboys (45 litres),         Neat or
hypochlorite            oxidation         liquid        20~              HDPE), rubber/steel                     horizontal or vertical       diluted to suit (h)
15.5% w/w NaOC1                                                          (*mild steel, A1, Zn, Cu                rubber/steel or PVC/
(15 % w/w C12)                                                           and their alloys, PP)                   GRP or HDPE tanks
Sodium bisulphite       Dechlorination    Hazardous     1.28 g/ml at     Thermoplastics (PP, PVC)     10~        Dums (45 litres,             Neat or
32.5% w/w NaHSO3        Deoxygenation     liquid        15.5~            GRP, stainless steel                    210 litres), stainless       diluted to suit
(20% w/w 502)                                                            (304, 316) (*mild steel)                steel or PVC/GRP or
                                                                                                                 rubber/mild steel vertical
                                                                                                                 tanks (heated and lagged
                                                                                                                 as applicable)
Hydrogen peroxide       Oxidation         Hazardous     1.130 g/ml at   Aluminium (99.5%),            -33~       PE carboys (50 kg),          Neat
35% w/w H202                              liquid        20~             A1-Mg alloys, stainless                  stainless steel or A1
                                                                        steel (304, 316), HDPE,                  horizontal or vertical
                                                                        PVC (*Fe, Cu, Ni, Cr,                    tanks or HDPE or
                                                                        brass)                                   PVC/GRP
Sodium chloride         Regeneration      Crystalline   1200-           Thermoplastics, rubber/                  PE bags (25 kg), 1 t         Saturated
(Pure Dried             of ion exchange   powder        1360 kg/m 3     mild steel, stainless steel              containers, saturators       solution (26.5 %
Vacuum Grade)           resin. On-site                                  (316), Aluminium alloy                   of reinforced concrete       w/w or 36%w/v
100% w/w NaCI           generation of                                   NS4 (*stainless steel,                   of rich mix (1:1.5:3)        at 20~ or
                        sodium                                          mild steel for moist or                  with 40 mm cover or          diluted to suit
                        hypochlorite                                    salt solutions)                          GRP
                                                                                                                                                 (Continued)
Table 7.7 (cont&ued) Properties of some chemicals commonly used in water treatment (see Table 7.8 for coagulants and Chapter 9 for other chemicals)

                                                                                                        Freezing                                Dosing
Chemical               Function            Form           Density         Materials                     point        Storage                    concentration
Ammonium               Ammoniation         Crystalline    1120 kg/m 3     Thermoplastics, stainless                  Bags (20 kg, 50 kg)        10% w/v
sulphate 25% w / w                         powder                         steel (304, 316) (*iron,                                              (solubility at
NH3                                                                       Cu, Zn, Tin and their                                                 10~ is 727 g/l)
                                                                          alloys)
Sodium chlorite        Chlorine dioxide    Hazardous      1.27 g/ml at    Thermoplastics (PE, PVC)       -15~        PE kegs (50 kg, 70 kg),    12.5-20% w/v
26% w/w NaC102         generation          liquid         20~             GRP (*Zn and                               H D P E vertical tanks
                                                                          combustibles)

PTFE - Polytetrafluoroethylene; H D P E - High density polyethylene; P V C - Polyvinyl chloride; G R P - Glass reinforced plastic; PE - Polyethylene (Polythene);
P P . - Polypropylene; P V C / G R P - PVC lined GRP; Rubber/steel- rubber lined mild steel; All stainless steel grades are to BS 970 or 1449.
*Unsuitable materials.
(a) x% w/w is x percent weight per weight = x grammes of the chemical in 100 g of the product.
(b) For calculating silo capacity.
(c) When aerated during bulk delivery.
(d) When stacked in bags.
(e) y% w/v is y percent weight per volume = y grammes of the substance in 100 ml of solution containing the substance.
(f) Quicklime gives off considerable amount of heat (1.14 x 106 J/kg) during slaking.
(g) Sulphuric acid gives off considerable amount of heat during dilution. Therefore when diluting, acid should be added to a large quantity of water.
(h) Softened water is preferred for solution preparation and dilution to prevent scaling.
308    Storage, clarification and filtration of water

area. The concentration of lime in saturated solution is temperature dependent; solubility
is 1.76, 1.65 or 1.53 g/1 at 10, 20 and 30~ respectively. Saturators convert about 80% of
the lime in the feed. They are also useful to produce a clear solution of lime when it
contains grit. Unconverted lime and grit are removed by regular desludging.
   Chemical dosing must be accurate and related to the flow of water to be treated.
Positive displacement pumps of the reciprocating type with mechanical or hydraulic
diaphragm heads are most frequently used for injection, but for viscous solutions such as
polyelectrolytes, progressive cavity type positive displacement pumps are sometimes used.
For lime and PAC suspensions, either diaphragm, progressive cavity or peristaltic pumps
are used. Pumps should be provided with a calibration vessel on the suction side, a
pressure relief valve, pulsation dampener, and a back pressure valve on the delivery side.
All chemical dosing pumps must be of high quality design and materials, appropriate for
the chemical handled, or their life will be short. The maximum stroking speed (spm) of
reciprocating pumps should be about 100 spm, in particular for viscous or abrasive
chemicals. The motor speed of progressive cavity and peristaltic pumps should be kept to
less than 500 and 50 rpm, respectively. A typical layout for a lime or PAC dosing plant is
illustrated in Fig. 7.11.
   With the reciprocating pump, dosage adjustment is achieved by altering the pump
stroke length. Where plant throughput is variable (greater than + 5%) the pump motor


                   Dust filter                        Pressure            High level
                                                        relief            alarm probe




                                                          Silo

Filling line
                                                                            Load cells

                                              ~ _ _ ' ~ ~ _                     ~oi supply fOr arch breaking
                                                                            ---     vibrator may be used)
                                                          I I      Screw feeder              I
                                                      ~     ~                     Level      i
                                                                                 probes ~ Water supply
                                              r-1                    . 1~'~ I''1 ~           ti              / Flushing
                                                                                                        ~~     waterline
        'I~l,:                                                              Till
                                                                                     ,,
                                                                                            ......     t
                                                                  j.L,:bN
                                                                                                     ,,,[ ......
        ' '                                                       /tank      [       I/
                                                                                                                               To dosing
        !, , .: .t ',, l                       ,,"!                                                                              point
        I                      . . . . .r.   /.LL
                                                                                                                   '       ~         r
              H'-
               .   .   .   .   .

                                                                                                                       !


            Alternative                                           ,~   De-sludging         Filter
                                                                                                                       !


             D-mixer                                      Drain           pipe
             for lime                                                                                      Metering
                                                                                                            pumps

Fig. 7.11 Chemical plant for lime or PAC or soda ash mixing and dosing.
                         7.20 Chemical dosing equipment and treatment works layout         309


speed is automatically controlled in proportion to the flow rate measured near the
chemical injection point. This type of control is called 'open-loop'; it has no feed-back or
corrective action and the applied dose rate is strictly proportional to the flow. In a 'closed-
loop' system, the pump output is corrected to maintain a given water quality value (such
as pH) over a narrow pre-set band, measured downstream of the injection point after the
chemical has been well mixed with the water ('feed-back' control). A process controller,
working in conjunction with an appropriate water quality measuring instrument, sends a
4-20 mA signal back to the pump to adjust its stroke length. In some instances this water
quality signal is combined with the rate of flow signal and used to control the pump motor
speed. This latter method is used on pumps which have no stroke adjustment (e.g.
progressive cavity and peristaltic types), or on chlorinators and similar equipment to
control the orifice positioner so as to maintain a pre-set residual chlorine concentration in
the water (see Section 9.12).
   In some plants it is necessary to apply the same dose to two or more equal streams, e.g.
water entering separate clarifiers; it is then vital to ensure accuratedivision of the metered
chemical flow and this is often done by use of a splitter box with equally set V-notch weirs.
   In remote parts of developing countries chemical dosing systems are kept simple, with
manual preparation of solutions and slurries and the use of constant head solution feeders
for dosing chemicals. 72


Plant layouts
Figure 7.12 shows a typical layout for a conventional water treatment works using
aluminium sulphate as the primary coagulant, polyelectrolyte as a coagulant aid, sulphuric
acid for pH adjustment, chlorine for intermediate and final disinfection, plus partial
dechlorination and lime for final pH correction, and the possibility of using powdered
activated carbon to treat occasional taste problems (see Section 8.33). Among the most
important considerations when planning a layout are the following.
(1) The flow through the works should be gravitational: it is inadvisable to re-pump water
    between clarifiers and filters or this would break up floc. Hence a site having a gentle
    gradient of 1 in 10 to 1 in 15 is most favourable.
(2) When siting works adjacent a river it is important to avoid siting any structure below
    highest flood level because of the difficulty and cost of countering uplift problems.
    The intake should ideally be sited on the inside bend of a river. No electrical or
    chemical plant should be put in a basement which could flood owing to a burst pipe.
(3) The works should be provided with means to safely evacuate overflow caused by fault
    or mal-operation. Typical locations are inlets to the works, filters and disinfection
    contact tanks.
(4) All structures conveying and retaining water downstream of filters should be sealed to
    prevent contamination. All water retaining structures should be provided with means
    for dewatering.
(5) Easy access, including turning-circles, should be provided for chemical delivery
    vehicles. Access for large equipment for plant repair or replacement should be possible
    to all buildings.
(6) It is preferable to provide chemical dosing lines in duplicate (one duty, one standby).
    Routing of chemical dosing lines should take account of the chemical handled.
    Corrosive chemical lines should not be laid in positions where any leakage could
                                                                                                                               Relift pumps (if required)
                                                                                   Rapid gravity                  ~    Ozone contact tank
                               ~ l a r i f i e ~ /                                    ~~iii!.i!!i!iit.t]l~filters
                                                                                       rlI~.!~             Irl~,r~ ,~~ ',                 Carbon
                                                                                                                                              filters~
                                              -r                                           ~i~:~!~~:~iz~:!        i        I ~,..........(.-:.....
                                                                                                                                          9        .............3
                               \~   ~ ~ - - / I "~--:'-~']" --~                                   ~i!i!~            Ozone                                                          tank
                 ~ 9wFWo
                     R a t e ~ ' ~ i " ' l u ~ d;,g e ' ~ /' ,        .)          ~                    p-t~~ii!!iii~
                                                                                                            t~?'!ii!i~
                                                                                                            l a n t ] , Upperl
                                                                                                                        I ]]]]]]]E                                             j     !Weir
                                                                                                                                                                                               water     1
                 |controller, . ~..                ;I ,                       _    I --.                              , ,    walkway      '~;~ _) /                                           storage
                 /~ch~veberN~xlr                   I ~ ~r              Filterwashwater -                              I I Usedwashwater .~xer2////                     Mixer3                   tank
                 L         vh-Ot          MI              J/'x                             I       ~              ~ ;--1                                                   ~         I
      To reoover,,,', "" ~            ~   ~        .' /          Flow sp,tter          '"~" I p.e. I             Contro~rl                      urr, e    "~          Chorine
      if ermitte , Inlet chamber                                                           .1.     t                  room             X        plant      Access
          To ~aste iii I~erm~e(::T)~                                                                                   Mes,;                   ~ La :)oratory
                 Washwater '~                                                                                          roorr                      (washwater
                                           To sludge                                                              I                            I pumps and
                     Settlement tanks I thickness                                                                       Upper floor               air blowers
                                      Ir T                                                                                                          below)
                                                                                                                           PLAN
       Flow
     controller                 Alum Polyelectolyte Notional water levels (m)

                  ~ ,        V 49.4,                                                                                                                      Carbon                              S02
                  ~/---
                    m I          .~            i_._i r'492
                                                       I ,v '--"                , 'I             490        i     6 " 9 4EL                        49.0 filt..r     Chlorine                 Lime9
            Q T/
                                                            I ~                                   T"                               .       I            ~....          ~
                                                     It..~/..t                                   .G. filter 49~                                46.8 Mixer 2                                  Mixer 3
            X/        -~                       r ..~ I.~ularli'ler"-" _J                    I............... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                               1
       Inlet   Weir
     chamber chamber
                                      Mixer
                                      No. 1
                                                            Sludge-          Used'
                                                                           washwater
                                                                                                           "J'-' ..rr--~ ~W T~             .-. L.__                  -,I
                                                                                                                                                                                   I ILL-_I
                                                                                                        Re-lift pumps          '           uzone                                   Contact             I
                                                                                                        (if required)                                                               tank               Treated
                                                                                                                                                                                                         water
Fig. 7.12   Diagrammatic layout and hydraulic gradient for a water treatment plant incorporating ozonation and GAC filters.                                                                            storage
                                                         Coagulants and coagulant aids      311

     damage other lines or cause injury to personnel. Toxic gas under pressure or solution
     lines should be laid outside buildings in separate ducting; when possible toxic gases
     should be conveyed under vacuum and mixed with water just before injection.
     Delivery lines for slurries, such as lime, are difficult to keep clean and should be of the
     flexible hose type and laid flat. An easy means of water-flushing of dosing lines should
     be provided. All chemicals can be diluted in-line after metering. Water for in-line
     dilution (and solution preparation) of those chemicals which react with calcium to
     form insoluble compounds (e.g. caustic soda) should be softened by base exchange
     (see Table 7.7). Lime should not be subjected to in-line dilution due to the tendency to
     scale dosing lines, unless the alkalinity of dilution water is less than 14 mg/1 as CaCO3.
     This is achievedby de-alkalisation (see Section 8.9) or by treating the dilution water
     with hydrochloric acid (HC1) to destroy the alkalinity followed by degassing to
     remove the carbon dioxide produced in the reaction; l mg/1 of alkalinity as CaCO3
     requires 0.73 mg/1 100% HC1 and produces 0.88 mg/1 carbon dioxide. Alternatively
     dilution should be in tanks with at least 15 minutes residence time to allow any
     softening reactions to reach completion. Chemical pipes should be laid in trenches in
     the ground provided with removable covers for better access in preference to buried
     ducts.
(7) Instrumentation and electrical power lines will form a complex network of cabling
     inside buildings and on the site. In the early stages of planning the building layout,
     allowance should be made for chemical pipes, cable trays, ventilation ducts and other
     services such as site water supply. It is useful to include a major duct, connecting the
     main chemical building with other parts of the works, in which such cables and pipes
     can be laid. High tension electrical cables should be separately ducted. Ducts for
     chemical delivery lines can be adjacent, but must be separate. All ducts must have
     drainage outlets.
(8) Liquid chemical storage vessels will need bunding dedicated to each chemical. A bund
     should be designed to hold 110% of the contents of the largest tank. Dosing pumps
     and similar apparatus should also be surrounded by a low bund wall 150 mm high to
     contain leakage. Dust-nuisance chemicals, e.g. lime and PAC, should be fully
     segregated. PAC is an electrical conductor and should not be allowed to accumulate as
     dust on open electrical circuits. Toxic gas facilities (chlorine, sulphur dioxide and
     ammonia) should be located in fully segregated buildings, or rooms. A storage room
     should be physically separated from other rooms, with equipment handling gas under
     pressure confined to the storage room (see Section 9.12).
(9) Substances and products used in the Works which may come in contact with the water
     which is to be supplied for drinking, should not contain any matter which could
     impart taste, odour, colour or toxicity to the water or otherwise be objectionable on
     health grounds.
(10) All chemical drainage including that from hardstanding areas should be collected and
     disposed of separately and should not be allowed to contaminate water courses.
(11) Safety precautions for operational staff should receive careful attention. This should
     include the provision of safety showers, eye baths, first aid boxes, protective clothing
     and breathing apparatus.
(12)Any mess room for operatives should be positioned close to the principal control
     desks so that all alarm signals can be heard. In some cases floodlighting of works and
     closed circuit TV monitoring of outlying structures is advisable.
312   Storage, clarification and filtration of water


Coagulants and coagulant aids

7.21 Aluminium coagulants
Aluminium sulphate is the most widely used aluminium coagulant. It is available in a
number of solid grades such as block, kibbled or ground and is also available as a solution.
In waterworks practice aluminium sulphate is frequently but incorrectly referred to as
'alum'. The solid form has the composition A12(SO4)3xH20 where x may range from 14 to
21 containing 14-18% w/w A1203 (alumina) or 7.5-9% w/w A1 (aluminium), depending
on the number of molecules of water (x). The liquid form contains 8% w/w A1203 or 4.2%
w/w A1. The amount of A1203 or A1 in any solid grade of aluminium sulphate containing x
moles of water is given by y% w/w A1203 - [5.67 + (19 + x)] x 100 and z% w/w A1 - [3
+ (19 + x)]  100, respectively.
    The aluminium sulphate dose is therefore normally expressed in mg/1 as y% w/w A1203
depending on the grade of aluminium sulphate, or more usefully in mg/1 as A1; 1 mg/1 as
y% w/w A1203 is equal to 5.29 y  10-3 mg/1 as A1. Aqueous solutions of the solid grades
are usually prepared in concrete tanks lined with acid resistant bricks, epoxy mortar, or
fibre glass and equipped with a collector system of perforated pipe laterals in a bed of
gravel. The tanks are usually built below ground level so that the material delivered in bulk
can be tipped directly into the tanks. A saturated solution is prepared which contains
about 660 g/1 (10~       690 g/1 (20~ or 730 g/1 (30~ and is subsequently diluted about
four- to six-fold in stock tanks before dosing. When the solid grade is delivered in bags, a
200-300 g/1 solution is prepared in tanks containing two compartments separated by a
timber grid to prevent solid in one compartment damaging the top-entry turbine mixers in
the other. The liquid grade containing 8% w/w A1203 is stored in stainless steel, epoxy
coated steel, rubber lined mild steel, or thermoplastic tanks and dosed by metering pump
in the delivered form; after metering, it should preferably be diluted about five to six-fold,
but to not less than 0.25% w/w A1203 to assist mixing at the point of application.
    When dosed into water, the formation of an aluminium hydroxide floc is the result of
the reaction between the acidic coagulant and the natural alkalinity of the water, which
usually consists of calcium bicarbonate. A dose of 1 mg/1 of aluminium sulphate as A1
reacts with 5.55 mg/1 of alkalinity expressed as CaCO3 and increases the CO2 content by
4.9 mg/1. Thus if no alkali is added the alkalinity will be reduced by this amount with a
consequent reduction in pH. If a water has insufficient alkalinity or 'buffering' capacity,
additional alkali such as hydrated lime, sodium hydroxide, or sodium carbonate must
 therefore be added; the alkalinity expressed as CaCO3 produced by 1 mg/1 of each
chemical (100% purity) is 1.35, 2.5 and 0.94 rag/l, respectively. The aluminium hydroxide
 floc is insoluble over relatively narrow bands of pH, which may vary with the source of the
 raw water. Therefore pH control is important in coagulation, not only in the removal of
 turbidity and colour but also to maintain satisfactory minimum levels of dissolved residual
 aluminium in the clarified water. The optimum pH for coagulation of lowland surface
 waters is usually within the range of 6.5-7.2, whereas for more highly coloured upland
 waters a lower pH range, typically 5-6, is necessary. Lowland waters usually contain
 higher concentrations of dissolved salts, including alkalinity and may therefore require the
 addition of acid in excess of that provided by the coagulant. Under these circumstances it
 is usually more economic to add sulphuric acid rather than excess aluminium sulphate to
 obtain the optimum coagulation pH value.
                                                                    7.23 Iron coagulants    313


   Polyaluminium chloride (PAC1) has the flocculating properties of aluminium sulphate.
The principal advantages over aluminium sulphate are that it depresses the pH of the
treated water less than aluminium sulphate, thereby reducing the alkali dose required for
subsequent final pH correction; it forms a stronger and more readily settleable floc than
aluminium sulphate; coagulation is less affected by low temperature and in many cases it
performs as well as combined use of aluminium sulphate and polyelectrolyte, thus saving
on the cost of the polyelectrolyte. In some waters it can be used in lower doses than
aluminium sulphate and over a broader optimum pH range (6-9). There are several grades
of PAC1 containing 10, 18 or 24% w/w A1203; the 10% w/w grade being the most
commonly available. The other polymeric aluminium salts are polyaluminium chloro-
sulphate and polyaluminium silicate sulphate. They behave in a similar manner to PAC1.
The properties of the most commonly used aluminium coagulants are summarised in
Table 7.8.


7.22     Sodium aluminate
Sodium aluminate is prepared from aluminium oxide stabilised with caustic soda; it is used
with aluminium sulphate to coagulate very cold waters which would not coagulate
successfully with aluminium sulphate alone. It is also used in the 'double coagulation' of
highly coloured waters; aluminium sulphate (with sulphuric acid) being added as the first
stage to coagulate the colour at pH 4.5-5.0. The resulting soluble aluminium in the settled
water from the first sedimentation stage is precipitated in the second sedimentation stage
using the alkaline sodium aluminate at pH 6.5. Sodium aluminate is also used in lime-soda
softening in which insoluble calcium aluminate is formed, and in turn flocculates the
precipitated calcium carbonate and magnesium hydroxide.
   In recent years a theory has been put forward that aluminium in drinking water may be
associated with neurological disorders and Alzheimer's disease. 73 In addition its presence
in filtered water can be harmful to users of renal dialysis (see Section 6.5). For these
reasons some water undertakings have changed from aluminium to iron coagulants. TM
When making such a change care should be taken to clean process units free of all
accumulated floc, which would otherwise dissolve and increase the aluminium
concentration in the water if a ferric coagulant is used outside the optimum pH range
for the aluminium coagulant.


7.23     Iron coagulants
Iron coagulants in the ferric form behave similar to aluminium sulphate and form ferric
hydroxide floc in the presence of bicarbonate alkalinity. A dose of 1 mg/1 of ferric sulphate
or chloride as Fe neutralises 2.7 mg/1 alkalinity expressed as CaCO3 and increase the CO2
content by 2.36 mg/1. The ferric hydroxide floc is insoluble over a much broader pH range
(4-10) than aluminium sulphate. The lower end of the pH range (4-5.5) is useful for
treating highly coloured moorland waters.
   Iron coagulants are available as ferric sulphate, ferric chloride and ferrous sulphate.
Ferric salts are very corrosive acidic liquids. All materials of construction suitable for
aluminium sulphate are suitable for ferric salts, with the exception of stainless steel which
is unsuitable for ferric chloride. Ferric sulphate is usually preferred to ferric chloride since
the introduction of chloride ions may increase the corrosivity of a water. Ferrous sulphate,
Table 7.8   Physical properties of coagulants

                                                                                                                                              Polymeric
              Sodium        Aluminium      Aluminium     Polyaluminium Polyaluminium Polyaluminium Ferrous            Ferric     Ferric       ferric
              aluminate     sulphate       sulphate      chloride      chlorosulphate silicate sulphate sulphate      sulphate   chloride     sulphate
Physical      Liquid        Solid          Liquid        Liquid         Liquid          Liquid          Solid         Liquid     Liquid       Liquid
form
Chemical      NaA 102       A12(804)3.     A12(804)3     Alx(OH)y.Clz   A12(SO4)x.     Alw(OH)x         FeSO4.7HzO Fe2(SO4)3     FeC13        Fe2(SO4)3
formula                     xH20                                        Cly.(OH)z      (SO4)y(SiO2)z
                            x = 14-21
Typical    25% w/w          Blocks 14%     8% w/w        10% w/w        8.3% w/w       8% w/w           90% w/w    40-42% w/w 40-42% w/w 48-50% w/w
commercial A1203            W/W            A1203         A1203          A1203          A1203            FeSO4.7H20 Fe2(SO4)3  FeC12      Fe2(SO4)3
grade                       A1203
Fe/A1      10.5             300/(19 + x)   4.2           5.3            4.4            4.4              18            12         14-14.5       13.5-14
content
(% w/w)
of the
commercial
product
pH            12.5          1.5 for a      1.3           2.3-2.9        2.8-3.0        3.6-3.8          1.7 for a     < 1.0      < 1.0        1.0
                            saturated                                                                   saturated
                            solution                                                                    solution
                            (670 g/1 of                                                                 (390 g/1 of
                            water at                                                                    water at
                            20~                                                                         20~
Specific      1.54 at 20~   1 to 1.4 t/m 3 1.32 at 15~   1.20 at 20~    1.16 at 20~     1.28 at 15~     1.0 t/m 3     1.52       1.45         1.58-1.63
gravity                     (bulk                                                                       (bulk         at 15~     at 15~       at 15~
                            density)                                                                    density)

                                                                                                                                            (Continued)
Table 7.8 (continued)    Physical properties of coagulants

                                                                                                                                                             Polymeric
                Sodium        Aluminium     Aluminium      Polyaluminium     Polyaluminium      Polyaluminium       Ferrous         Ferric      Ferric       ferric
                aluminate     sulphate      sulphate       chloride          chlorosulphate     silicate sulphate   sulphate        sulphate    chloride     sulphate
Freezing        -15~          -              -15~          -12~              -12~               0                                   _15oc       -2oc          _20oc
point
Viscosity       470 m.Pa.s    -             20 m.Pa.s      3.5-4.5 m.Pa.s    4.5 m.Pa.s         11 m.Pa.s                           30 m.Pa.s   7.5 m.Pa.s    55 m.Pa.s
at 20~
Coagulation     6.5-7.5       5.5-7.5        5.5-7.5       6-9               6.5-7.8            6.5-.8              4.0-10.0        4.0-9.0     4.0-9.0       > 4.5
pH range        (10-11 for                                                                                          (chlorinated)
                softening)

Notes.
All liquid coagulants are dosed neat and solid coagulants are dosed as saturated solutions. They can be diluted to suit (typically 20% w/v for metering), but any
further in-line dilution following metering should be limited to a level that does not cause precipitation. Diluted solutions of some polymerised coagulants gradually
hydrolyse with time with subsequent loss of effectiveness.
Suitable materials of construction are thermoplastic material such as polyvinylchloride (PVC), polyethylene, polypropylene, PVC lined glass reinforced plastic,
rubber lined mild steel, stainless steel (316) except for those containing chlorides and concrete with suitable linings, e.g. acid resistant bricks, fibre glass or resin
coated. Unsuitable materials are mild steel and most common metals such as A1, Zn, Cu and their alloys and concrete.
316    Storage, clarification and filtration of water


traditionally referred to in its hydrated form (FeSO4.7H20) as 'copperas', is a powder and
a solution for use is prepared in a manner similar to that described for the solid grade of
aluminium sulphate. Sulphuric acid is added to a batch of a saturated solution of ferrous
sulphate to eliminate the ferric hydroxide precipitate. It is used as a coagulant usually in
conjunction with chlorine when it is oxidised in situ to ferric sulphate and ferric chloride.
Chlorine and ferrous sulphate are metered separately and mixed together before dosing to
the water. Theoretically for each part of ferrous sulphate as Fe, 0.65 parts of chlorine are
required; in practice excess chlorine is used. A dose of 1 mg/1 of chlorinated ferrous
sulphate (excluding excess chlorine) as Fe neutralises 8.0 rag/1 alkalinity expressed as
calcium carbonate. A disadvantage with the use of chlorinated ferrous sulphate is the
probability of the formation of THMs by the action of excess chlorine with THM
precursors in the raw water. Ferrous sulphate on its own is used as a coagulant in
processes utilising high pH values such as lime softening (pH 10-11) and manganese
removal (pH 9). Iron coagulants have the advantage of producing a denser floc than that
produced by aluminium sulphate thereby producing improved settlement characteristics
but at the expense of about a 40% increase in the weight of hydroxide sludge when
compared to aluminium coagulants. Water treatment using iron coagulants requires close
process control because excessive residual iron will result in consumer complaints, whereas
excess aluminium causes less noticeable effects.
   Polymeric ferric sulphates are now available; they contain about 12.5% w/w Fe and are
claimed to perform better and at lower doses than ferric sulphate. 75 There are ferric-
aluminium sulphate coagulants; one such product contains approximately 8% w/w of the
metal oxides made up of 6% w/w A1203 and 2% w/w Fe203. The properties of commonly
used of iron coagulants are summarised in Table 7.8.
   Many iron coagulants contain approximately 7 g of manganese per kg of iron as an
impurity, and this will contribute to the manganese concentration in the water.



7.24     Coagulant aids and polyelectrolytes
Coagulant aids are used to improve the settling characteristics of floc produced by
aluminium or iron coagulants. The coagulant aid most used for a number of years was
activated silica; other aids included sodium alginates and some soluble starch products.
These substances had the advantage of being well-known materials already used in
connection with the food industry and were thus recognised as harmless in the treatment
of water. Polyelectrolytes came later into use and were more effective. Originally of natural
origin, for the most part they now comprise of numerous synthetic products: long chain
organic chemicals which may be cationic, anionic, or non-ionic. The theory of their action
has been reviewed by Packham. 76
   Polyacrylamides are the most effective of the synthetic group of polyelectrolytes, but for
their safe use the toxic monomer residue (the raw materials used in their manufacture)
which is not adsorbed by the floe, should be virtually absent from the product. In the UK
the list of 'Approved Substances, Products and Processes' under the Water Supply (Water
Quality) Regulations 77 states that 'no batch must contain more than 0.025% by weight of
free acrylamide monomer based on the active polymer content'; the dose used must
average no more than 0.25 mg/1 and never exceed 0.5 rag/1. The US EPA allows a
maximum dose of 1 rag/1 on an assumed acrylamide content of 0.05% by weight.
                                                     7.25 Mechanism of rapid filtration    317

   Polyelectrolyte doses used are very small in relation to the dose of the primary
coagulant. Natural polyelectrolyte doses vary between 0.5-2.5 mg/1 whereas polyacryl-
amide doses vary between 0.05-0.25 mg/1. Polyelectrolytes are added as a coagulant for
turbid waters, or after the primary coagulant as a coagulant aid (see Section 7.13).
Sometimes they are added just prior to filtration in very small doses (less than 0.05 mg/1)
to flocculate micro-floc particles carried over from the clarifiers and filter passing algae;
care in control of the dose is necessary because excess polyelectrolyte could result in 'mud
ball' formation and other problems in the filters.
   Most polyelectrolytes are powders and a solution must be prepared for dosing. For
successful preparation the powder must be wetted properly by using a high energy water
spray before dissolving, and the solution should be allowed to age for about an hour in
cold water or 30 minutes in warm water conditions before use. For polyacrylamide the
solution should be prepared at about 2.5 g/l, whereas for natural polyelectrolytes the
solution concentration could be as high as 25 g/1. Polyelectrolyte solutions are viscous and
can be metered to the point of application using positive displacement pumps of the
reciprocating or progressive cavity type; the stroking speed of the pump should be
maintained under 100 spin. Following metering the solution should be diluted ten-fold to
assist transfer in the pipe and dispersion at the point of application. Once a batch of stock
solution is prepared it should be used within about 24 hours.
   In some waterworks where activated silica is still used as a coagulant aid, it is prepared
in situ by partial neutralisation of the alkaline sodium silicate to form a colloidal solution,
known as silica sol. The neutralising agent can be sulphuric acid (which requires careful
control to avoid the solution setting to a gel) or chlorine or aluminium sulphate if this is
more convenient, or the more widely used sodium bicarbonate. The dosage of activated
silica is commonly in the range 2-5 mg/1.
   The practical effect of introducing polyelectrolytes in many existing waterworks has
been to increase the settling rate and hence allow substantially greater output through the
sedimentation tanks and filters; an additional advantage has been in the use of
polyelectrolytes to assist in the used filter washwater recovery and thickening and
dewatering of sludges.


           Part ii Water filtration methods and sludge disposal
Rapid gravity filtration
7.25 Mechanism of rapid filtration
Sedimentation with or without chemical coagulation is usually followed in a waterworks by
solid-liquid separation processes which usually include rapid filtration, and the basic
principles determining the removal of particles by such filtration will now be discussed.
Usually rapid filtration is preceded by chemical treatment of the water; rapid filtration
without chemical treatment is effective for relatively few waters, its main use being 'primary'
filtration before slow sand filtration. The latter is discussed in Sections 7.38-7.41.
   In rapid filtration the removal of particles is largely by physical action, although
physicochemical processes may also occur. The size of grain of the filter media, usually
sand, is normally within the range of 0.4-1.5 mm whereas particles which may be removed
by simple filtration, e.g. mineral particles or diatoms, may be at least twenty times smaller.
In fact a proportion of particles even several hundred times smaller than the size of the
318    Storage, clarification and filtration of water


sand grains may be removed. In achieving effective removal of the smaller particles the
addition of a coagulant to form a floc, containing aluminium or iron hydroxides, is usually
necessary, but even the floc particles may be very small compared with the size of a grain
of the filter media. It is therefore evident that filtration is quite different from a simple
straining action such as that of microstrainers. In many instances there may be some
straining action due to a coating on the surface of a filter, but in general filtration is a
process in which some depth of the filter media is utilised. In filtration of water the flow
within the filter bed is laminar or streamline; the loss of head through the media is
proportional to the velocity of flow of water.
   It is evident that it is necessary to consider by what mechanisms relatively small particles
are removed by simple filtration, and a considerable amount of research has been carried
out on this subject in recent years. Some of this work has been carried out and the
concepts conveniently summarised by Ives et al. 7s The general conclusion has been
reached that the principal mechanisms of simple filtration are physical and they may be
considered under the headings of gravity (or sedimentation), interception, hydro-dynamic
effects, and diffusion.
   Research on filtration has also considered mechanisms of possible attraction (or
repulsion) between particles and filter grains; in the absence of any attraction some
particles would tend to become detached. Such considerations are, however, complex and
any clear conclusions are of limited application. Van der Waals forces are well known as
attractive forces between molecules and theoretically they apply to nearly all materials in
water, but their range is usually limited to minute distances of less than 0.05 #m.
   Finally it should be mentioned that in some water treatment processes physicochemical
or chemical reactions occur in contact with filter grains. One example is the deposition of
calcium carbonate from waters having a positive calcium carbonate saturation index.
Another is the oxidation and deposition of compounds of iron and manganese. After such
reactions have commenced the coated grains may provide active surfaces for their
continuance. In a few instances the oxidation of ammonia to nitrate or other biochemical
action may be an incidental effect of passing a water through a rapid filter, due to the
development of the necessary bacterial flora in organic impurities on the filter grains.
   The principle of biological reaction is now used in potable water treatment for reducing
the concentration of nitrates, ammonia, iron and manganese to an acceptable level by the
development of a biomass on the surface of filter sand (see Section 8.25).



7.26      Design and construction of rapid gravity filters
The working part of a rapid gravity sand filter or the part that removes the solids from the
incoming water is the filtering medium which is usually sand. As already discussed in
Section 7.25, there are many different mechanisms (sedimentation, interception,
hydrodynamic diffusion, attraction and repulsion, etc.) which contribute towards the
removal efficiency of a filter. Some have a greater role to play than others according to the
nature of the water and the chemical treatment which has been used in previous treatment
stages. Rapid gravity filters usually constitute the last solid-liquid separation stage in a
treatment cycle for drinking water, and the objective with all designs of filters is to reduce
the solids content measured as turbidity to less than 0.4 NTU with an upper limit of
1 N T U - these being the usual target values. More recently however, the need to ensure
                                    7.26 Design and construction of rapid gravity filters       319


the removal of Giardia cysts and Cryptosporidium oocysts has led to turbidity targets of
less than 0.1 N T U being applied to filtered waters.
   To achieve these standards of purity there is some limited but nevertheless important
scope for varying the basic design of a rapid gravity sand filter: for instance the sand size
can either be (nominally) constant, i.e. monograde, or it can vary from fine to coarse; the
depth of the sand can be shallow or deep; the direction of flow of water can be downflow,
upflow, or can even be brought into the middle of the sand bed to flow both upwards and
downwards. A further variation in design is to use three or more layers of sand and
pebbles or, alternatively, to use other materials, such as anthracite or garnet, having
differing grain size and relative density. All of these variations in filter design have been
incorporated from time to time in different commercial (sometimes patented) filters. When
a fine sand is used, the collection of solids during filtration, and hence the build-up of
headloss, tends to be within the top layers of sand. In contrast, with coarser sands the
solids penetrate to a greater depth and the lower layers of the sand bed are then called
upon to do some of the work of solids removal. So long as there is an adequate factor of
safety in bed depth against complete dirt penetration it makes good sense to utilise at least
some of the bed depth for solids capture, but the proviso must be that the backwashing
system can be relied upon to remove accumulated solids and achieve thorough cleansing of
the sand before its next working cycle. In theory the ideal sand grading arrangement is to
have a decreasing sand size in the direction of flow as this will bring about the greatest
degree of solids capture. Attempts to do this are discussed in Section 7.31 dealing with the
use of anthracite media.


Media data
The sand filter designs employed in Europe use either graded sand (fine to coarse or
hetrogenous) or of coarse monograde sand (uniform size or homogenous). There is no
single media specification (size and depth) that can applied universally for all waters. The
choice will be dependent upon the water quality and upstream processes, filtered water
quality objectives, cleaning method, filtration rate, length of filter runs, etc. In graded sand
filter the bed depth typically comprises 0.7 m of 0.6-1.18 mm fine sand (effective size*
0.75 mm), 0.1 m of 1.18 to 2.8 mm coarse sand, 0.1 m of 2.36 to 4.75 mm fine gravel and
0.15 m of 6.7-13.2 mm coarse gravel. For applications requiring a finer sand the two
upper layers are changed to 0.7 m of 0.5-1.0 mm sand (effective size 0.55 mm), 0.1 m of
1.0-2.0 mm coarse sand; the gravel layers remaining the same. Depending on the slot size
of the nozzles the bottom gravel layer can be omitted and replaced by more of the
adjoining media. The homogenous sand filter has a 0.9-1 m deep bed of 0.8-2 mm of sand
(effective size 0.9 mm) placed on a 50 mm layer of 4-8 mm gravel. The stated size ranges
for sand and gravel are generally 5 and 95 percentiles. For estimating the sand depth some
employ the rule that the depth of sand should be >_1000 times its effective size. 28 Some
filter plant designers use the term 'hydraulic size' in place of effective size. 79 It is defined as
the size particles would have to be, if all were the same size, in order to match the surface
area of a sample covering a range of sizes.




*Effective size = size of aperture through which 10% by weight of sand passes.
320   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

   The sand should be of the quartz grade with a specific gravity in the range 2.6-2.7. The
uniformity coefficient* should be less than 1.6 and usually lie between 1.3 and 1.4. Loss in
weight on ignition at 450~ should be <2% and the loss in weight on acid washing (20%
v/v hydrochloric acid for 24 hours at 20~ should be <2%. The sand should not be too
friable to ensure that washing operations do not produce fines. It should therefore be
tested for friability, g~


Underdrain system
The filter media is placed on a collector system; its functions are to collect water from
underside of the bed in an even manner and to spread air and water uniformly through the
bed during cleaning. There is a choice of collector system design. One system comprises
nozzles set in PVC pipe laterals, the spacing between laterals being infilled with concrete
(see Fig. 7.13). The design can only be adapted to apply air and water separately during
cleaning and therefore finds application in dual or triple media or granular activated
carbon filters. In another design nozzles are set in a reinforced concrete false floor with a




Fig. 7.13 Pipe lateral filter floor arrangement (Paterson Candy Ltd).

         *Uniformity coefficient = size of aperture through which 60% sand passes
                                   size of aperture through which 10% sand passes (by weight)
                                     7.26 Design and construction of rapid gravity filters                   321


space below (see Fig. 7.14 and Plate 17). The floor is either constructed in situ on plastic
formwork or made up of pre-cast concrete slabs supported on concrete sills. The design
allows water and air to be applied simultaneously or separately and the system provides
for better distribution of air and water than the pipe lateral systems. In both these designs
the gravel layers underneath the sand ensure uniform distribution of water and air with
nozzles being in the gravel layer to minimise the risk of sand penetrating the nozzle which
usually have slot sizes in the range 0.3-0.5 mm. Nozzle density depends on the type of
nozzles and is about 40 nozzles/m 2. There are several other systems, mostly of proprietary
designs, successfully used in many parts of the world.

Filter configuration
The overall number and size of filters vary. The number of filters is selected to minimise
the effect of removing a filter from service for washing on remaining filters. Therefore the
larger the number the better it is, as ideally it should be possible to take three filters out of
service simultaneously (one draining down, one washing and one for maintenance). A
minimum of six filters is desirable, although four filters may be used provided they are low
rated or plant throughput can be reduced during maintenance of a filter. The limiting
factors for size are the uniform collection of filtered water, even distribution of washwater
and air, and the travel length of washwater to the collection channel during washing.
Usually filter sizes vary from 25 to 100 m 2 with lengths in the range 8-20 m and widths 3-
5 m. The washwater collection channel is located on one side along the length of the filter.


                                                                                                      Nozzles


                                                                                             ....

                                                                 Filter media                9 ~...

                                                                                            . ....y


                         ..- ..-,




                                         L-!-I,......
                                          9 o . 9
                                       , .        ~).." ... ,:




Backwash
channel




                        Air                                                                           Reinforcing
                        equalising                                                                    bars
                        holes

        Water                                                                   Permanent
        distribution                                                            formwork
        orifice
                       equalising
                       opening

Fig. 7.14   Plenum filter floor (Paterson Candy Ltd).
322   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

Filter beds up to twice these sizes can be constructed by providing two identical beds
separated by the washwater collection channel, thus limiting the travel length to 5 m. For
some special applications, washwater channels above the filter bed (the normal US
practice) are used (see Section 7.37).

Filtration rates
Filtration rates are selected on the basis of the application. Filters with deep bed coarse
homogenous sand for iron removal are rated at 6-7.5 m3/h.m 2 and for manganese removal
at about 15-18 m3/h.m 2. When used downstream of clarifiers coarse homogenous sand
filters are rated at about 7.5-10 m3/h.m 2 with the higher rate being used when water
upstream of the clarifiers is treated by a combination of a coagulant and a polymer. At
filtration rates above 15 m3/h.m 2 the quality of filtrate tends to deteriorate and at rates in
excess of about 20 m3/h.m 2 the rate of headloss development becomes too rapid. Shallow
bed, graded sand filters are usually rated at about 75% of the rates for deep bed, coarse
homogenous sand filters. The rates achieved with multi-media filters are similar to those
achieved with deep bed coarse homogenous sand filters (see Section 7.30). The recent
concern over Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts in raw water supplies has led to a
reduction in filtration rates to about 6-7 m3/h.m 2 to minimise the risk of particulate
breakthrough.

Head losses, air binding and negative heads
In the downflow filter design with upflow washing it is usual for the filter to operate with
about 1.5-2 m or more of water over the bed; however, there are some proprietary designs
which operate with a much smaller depth of water (down to 0.5 m) and even with negative
head conditions, but the latter is not regarded as good practice as difficulties can occur
with cracking and mud balling in the filter bed and air binding, especially with high
filtration rates. The pressure distribution in a filter bed is illustrated in Fig. 7.15. Negative
head can occur when head loss (total head loss less the clean media loss) at any depth
exceeds the static head (water depth) at that point. The point of negative head
development varies with the filter media; nearer the media surface for graded sand, about
one-third way down the media in coarse homogenous sand and just below the anthracite
layer in dual media filters. Under negative head conditions dissolved gases in water are
released into the space between sand grains restricting the water flow, increasing the head
loss and prematurely terminating filter runs. It can also result in poor filtrate quality when
air binding is restricted to part of the filter and due to channels formed by escaping gases.
Because of greater solubility of gases in water at low temperature negative head is
particularly a problem in filters treating cold waters, surface waters or well-aerated ground
waters.
   Negative head can be overcome by arranging the filter outlet to discharge at or above
the top of the media level. The other option is to provide sufficient water depth above the
top of the media or wash the filters at a head loss less than the static head down to the
point of negative head development. The head loss in a clean filter is made up of clean
media and underdrain losses which is usually less than 0.25 m. Therefore when a filter is
returned to service after washing the loss of head through the bed and underdrain system
should be less than 0.3 m. The rate of head loss development is a function of solids
retention capacity of the filter and is lower for coarse homogenous sand filters than for
                                    7.26 Design and construction of rapid gravity filters 323




Fig. 7.15 Pressure distribution in a rapid gravity filter. Scales on X and Y axes are the same, hence
pressure OP at floor level equals depth TO. Points A - slope of pressure curve is equal to the clean
media curve. Points B - lowest water pressure during filtration. IR1 to 4 - pressure curves during
clogging. PQ - initial head loss. PR3 - maximum permissible operating head loss.


graded sand filters; in the latter it is improved by the use of an anthracite layer (see Section
7.30). The head loss allowed for retention of suspended solids (clogging head) is usually in
the range 1.5-1.8 m. Therefore filters are allowed to run to 1.8-2 m head loss.


Solids retention
The maximum solids retention capacity of a filter is a function of the voids which is
approximately equal to 45%. In practice only about a quarter of this space is available for
solids removal. It is reported that the solids retention capacity of a gravity filter is limited
to 10 and 35 g dry solids/litre of voids for light hydroxide floc and suspended solids in river
water, respectively. 5~ For example therefore, a filter of 0.9 m sand bed and filtration rate
of 7.5 m3/h.m 2, washing every 24 hours cannot accept more than 5 mg/1 of light hydroxide
floc or 17.5 mg/1 of suspended turbidity in the influent over the run length. The respective
equivalent filter loadings are 900 and 3150 g/m 2 and is in general agreement with the range
of 550-5500 g/m 2 quoted by Cleasby. 6~


Flow control
As the bed becomes clogged the head loss through it increases resulting in the lowering of
the filtration rate. For best filter performance it is desirable to have a constant filtration
rate and any changes in filtration rate, such as when removing a filter for washing, should
be as smooth as possible. Therefore control systems which divide flow equally between
324   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

filters and allow filtration without fluctuations in rate are essential for good filtration
results. Equal flow is achieved by using weirs to proportion the flow equally to all filters or
it may be achieved by sizing the outlet pipework and valves of each filter to limit the
maximum flow hydraulically. In such cases, after a filter is backwashed, the level of water
in the filter box will rise to such a level above the outlet head on the filter so that it is
sufficient to overcome the headloss through a clean filter and its underdrainage system. As
the sand becomes progressively clogged during a filter run, increasing the head loss
through the filter, so the water level in the filter box rises to the maximum possible. The
simplicity of the rising level filter design is attractive and has many advantages, 81 but it
suffers from the absence of any flow control on the outlet valve at start-up after a filter
wash. At this time it is desirable to have a reduced rate of flow through the bed for a while
because the full output through the newly cleansed sand can result in a temporary
breakthrough of turbidity (see Section 7.27).
   If an outlet controller is fitted, it modulates the outlet control valve so as to maintain a
flow which does not exceed a permitted maximum. As the bed becomes clogged and the
headloss through it increases, the controller opens the outlet valve to keep the output
constant. There are also mechanical, electronic, electrical, or pneumatic linkages from this
controller back to the filter, so arranged as to maintain a substantially constant water level
during the course of a filter run. The principal reason for an outlet controller is to maintain a
predetermined constant output from each filter under varying headloss conditions, the
amount being such that the total inflow to the filtration plant is divided equally among all
operating filters. A drawback with flow division on the inlet using weirs is that the free fall
can break the fragile floc into small fragments which may not be effectively removed in the
filters. In flow division based on outlet flow measurement this is overcome by having
submerged inlets with common water level in all filters. A flowmeter in each filter outlet
monitors the flow and modulates the outlet control valve to achieve the required flow which
is derived by dividing the total flow by the number of filters in service. The constant level is
maintained as before except that the level measurement could be made in the inlet channel
because all filters have a common level. One of the drawbacks of constant rate filters is
turbidity breakthrough occurs towards the end of the filter run. This is less likely in declining
rate filters where the filtration rate decreases as the headloss develops.
    Declining rate filters are based on a simple design. 49'82'83 The system is best suited for a
 group of six or more filters so that the additional flow to be shared when one filter is taken
 out of service for washing is not excessive. It is reasonable to design on the basis of a
 maximum flow range through each filter of + 35% of the average filtration rate, the
 average being taken as the total output divided by the total sand bed area provided. The
 inlet valve or penstock to each filter is usually submerged and, to restrict the filtration rate
 to the maximum, it is necessary to install some form of restricting orifice or valve on the
 outlet. Filters are washed in a fixed sequence and individual filter instrumentation for loss
 of head or quality of filtrate, i.e. turbidity, is used only to detect a filter whose behaviour is
 out of line with the rest for some reason. In terms of hardware the system is very simple
 and this is its chief merit; claims of lower head loss, longer filter runs, improved quality,
 and a less costly installation compared with other systems need to be critically examined as
 there may be doubt as to whether they are always obtained in practice. A good detailed
 analysis of rapid gravity filters and their hydraulics is given by Stevenson. 84
                                                                      7.27 Backwashing 325

7.27 Backwashing
Rapid gravity filters employing graded sand are washed by separate use of air and water
through the bed by reverse flow. The first operation is to allow the filter to drain down
until the water lies few centimetres above the top of the bed. Air is then introduced
through the collector system at a rate of about 6.5-7.5 mm/s. The surface of the sand
should show an even spreading of bursting air bubbles coming through the sand. The
water over the bed quickly becomes very dirty as the air-agitated sand breaks up surface
scum and dirt is loosened from the surface of the sand grains. This is followed by an
upward flow of water at a carefully selected velocity to expand and fluidise the bed. Under
this condition the voids between grains of sands are increased and resulting rotation of
grains and consequent attrition between grains produces a scouring action to remove
attached deposits. The wash rate should be just sufficient to achieve fluidisation velocity
(incipient fluidisation) with little bed expansion. Increasing the backwash rate beyond this
state will be counter productive because as the distance between sand grains increases, the
scouring action will be reduced. High backwash rates may result in loss of sand and
wastage of water and energy.
   In the UK the practice is to use wash rates to produce 1-3% bed expansion. The rates
are viscosity dependent and therefore are affected by water temperature, with higher rates
used at warm water temperatures. Typical wash rates in mm/s used for sand at varying
water temperature to give about 2.0% bed expansion are given in Table 7.9.
   An empirical relationship has been developed to express bed expansion of graded media
with temperature 85 which is the ratio of expansions at T~ to 20~ is 1.57 exp
(-0.023r):1.
   Applying this equation to the UK conditions it can be shown that if summer wash rates
are used throughout the year, a 40% increase in the degree of expansion is shown in the
winter. This would lead to wastage of water and could result in loss of sand. Therefore, in
countries where water temperature varies, facilities for seasonal adjustment of wash rates
are advisable.
   The filters comprising deep bed coarse homogenous sand rely upon the application of
air and water together in the wash phase, followed by a water rinse. In both phases the
water rate is well below the fluidisation velocity and does not cause the bed to expand.
This prevents hydraulic grading and maintains the homogeneity of the filter bed. The air
rate is 16 mm/s of free air. The water rate in the wash phase is usually 2 mm/s and that in
the rinse phase is 4 mm/s. Although some designers use a water rate of 4-5 mm/s in both
the wash and rinse phases. In the combined air-water wash method, wash rates are not
influenced by temperature. The duration of the wash phases depends on the method of
wash and filter influent quality. For designs with air and water applied separately, air


Table 7.9   Wash rates (mm/s) for sand filters to give 2% bed expansion at varying water
temperatures

                                  Water temperature (~
Sand size         Effective
range (mm)        size (mm)       5         10           15      20          25        30
0.5-1.0           0.55            3.1        3.5         4        4.5        5          5.5
0.6-1.18          0.75            4.4        5.0         5.6      6.3        6.9        7.5
326    Storage, clarification and filtration of water

scour lasts about 3-4 minutes and the water wash lasts about 4--6 minutes; and for designs
with the air and water applied concurrently, air is first introduced and after about 1.5-
2 minutes to allow the air flow to become established, water is introduced and the
combined air-water wash proceeds for about 6-8 minutes; the air flow is stopped while the
water flow continues to rinse the bed for another 8-10 minutes. However the total period a
filter remains off-line for washing is about 30-45 minutes which includes about 15-30
minutes for draining the filter down. The total water consumption per wash amounts to
about 2.5 bed volumes.
   It is sometimes very difficult to evacuate the whole of the dirty backwash water from a
bed before the filter is refilled and put to use. In order to reduce the extent of this problem
the filter influent (clarified water) is allowed into the filter and caused to flow across the
top of the bed from the end remote from the wash water collection channel during the last
stages of backwashing in order to flush the dirty water to waste from above the bed. This
stage of the wash is called 'surface-flush' or 'cross-wash' and forms an essential part of the
wash sequence and increases the washwater consumption to about 3 bed volumes. In one
filter design the filter is washed as usual, but the used washwater is contained above the
media by allowing the level to rise. At the end of the wash the used washwater is rapidly
discharged to waste. An advantage of the design is high wash rates may be applied without
fear of media loss. Typical free air and water rates are in the range 14-22 mm/s and 10-
18 mm/s, respectively and can be applied either concurrently or separately. The water
usage is about 1-2.5% of works throughput.
   When the filter is returned to service after backwashing there is a short period, lasting
about 15-60 minutes, when the filtrate turbidity is high. This is due to the displacement of
residual washwater containing solids loosened from the bed during backwashing and also
the lower solids removal efficiency of the freshly washed media. The options available for
reducing the risk of this effect are either to return the first 15-60 minutes of filtrate to
waste (or usually the works inlet), or to allow the filter to stand for up to about 30 minutes
(so-called 'delayed start') or to allow time for the filter to 'ripen' by starting filtration at a
slow rate (so-called 'slow start ') or a combination of them. All of these features can be
operated automatically as part of the wash sequence provided that the filters are
appropriately designed.
    Water used for backwashing should be filtered and preferably chlorinated. In works
using aluminium coagulants it is best taken upstream of any final pH correction to
minimise the risk of dissolving aluminium hydroxide floc retained in the filter. The total
amount of washwater used has an important bearing upon the economy of a treatment
works, especially in relation to the net yield of a source. The total washwater used should
normally not exceed 2% of the treated water output and should preferably be less.



7.28      Operation of filters
Figure 7.16 illustrates typical relationships which exists between output, time, turbidity of
effluent, and headloss during the course of a filter run for both constant flow and declining
flow operation. The breakthrough of turbidity on start-up of a filter after backwashing is
quite usual (see Fig. 7.16b), even though precautions may be taken to effect a 'slow start'.
The length of a filter run between backwashings varies according to headloss build-up;
Fig. 7.16(c) shows a typical headloss build-up for a sand-anthracite filter. The relatively
                                                                                              7.28 Operation of filters 327

                           /   Start of filter run                                  :        = Declining rate



          T
                                                                                    o--------o Constant rate

                                       ..                              ,,           ,~   o         0        .o. n
                                                                                              v         O
          +~
          e-
          r
                               Note:
          D"                   Decline usually from about 30% above                                    End of
                               to 30% below average output, the average                                filter run
         m
          4-J                  corresponding to a constant rate filter
         I.I.


                                L           1       /     l       |         L       J         I         1           i
                       0        4               8   12   16      20      24         28       32        36       40
                                                          Filter run time (h)
          (a)     Flow versus time



                 1.0


                 08
          k-

          .~_ 0 . 6



                 0.4

          ,.,
          ~r     0.21                                                                         l



                                |               |   1     |
                                                                  10            l    |       312        I           I
                   0            4               8   12   16              24         28                 36       40
                                                          Filter run time (h)
          (b)      Filtrate quality versus time




                                                                                                                         In sand bed
                                                                                                                        Top of sand
                               Headloss measured
                               by piezometer tappings
                               in sand and anthracite
                                                                                                                        Bottom of
                                                                                                                        anthracite



                                                                                                                        Top of
                                                                                                                        anthracite


                   0            4               8   12
                                                   16       20      24              28       32        36       40
                                                     Filter run time (h)
           (c)     Headloss versus time in anthracite-sand filter

Fig. 7.16 Typical output characteristics of a rapid gravity filter.


high loss through the anthracite where the greater part of the dirt is retained and across the
anthracite-sand interface should be noted.
   When the maximum permitted headloss has been reached the filter run is terminated. It
is usual to aim for a washing frequency not greater than once every 24 hours. The length of
the run typically varies from about 24-60 hours. Long run lengths help to make savings on
backwash water, but encourage bacterial growth in the filter bed, in particular if the raw
328   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

water contains organic matter and is not treated with a disinfectant upstream. It is
therefore desirable to restrict run lengths to 48 hours in warm water temperatures and to
60 hours in cold water temperatures. At the other end of the time scale, it can prove
difficult to maintain full output from a works if each filter has to be washed more than
about once every 6 hours. The sequence of backwashing including the draindown usually
takes about 30-45 minutes, so that for a bank of filters requiring to be washed less than
every 24 hours it could prove necessary for one filter to be draining whilst another is being
backwashed. In difficult circumstances, when filter runs are as short as 6-12 hours, it is
often the practice to discharge the total contents of the filter to waste instead of draining to
supply in order to speed up the wash cycle: this is sometimes referred to as 'dumping' the
filter.
    Turbidity breakthrough is another criterion used in the termination of a filter run. The
primary indications that a filter requires backwashing are duration of filter run, loss of
head, or reduction in filtrate quality measured by turbidity. In most installations all three
parameters are monitored and can be used to initiate the washing cycle automatically and
eventually return the filters to service. More often than not, only the first two parameters
are used for automating the start of a filter washing cycle. It is useful to monitor filtered
water turbidity in total and from each filter and initiate an alarm on high value. The
individual filter turbidity helps to identify filter breakthrough which may be used to give
early warning of Cryptosporidium oocysts in the treated water, although particle counters
on individual filter outlets would be more appropriate. In automatic filter plants manual
control of washing should always be possible as an alternative so that special cleansing
measures can be taken when necessary.
    For air scouring, compressors working in conjunction with air storage cylinders or
Roots type positive displacement blowers are necessary. Air is usually applied at about
0.35 bar pressure at the air inlet valve. For backwashing it is usually most economic to use
gravity flow from a large elevated storage tank, since the rate of flow required is large and
electrical demand charges are minimised by keeping such a tank topped up by a relatively
small, continuously running pump drawing from the filtered water supply. The tank
should have two compartments with each sized for at least one filter wash. A drawback
with the system is that unless rate controllers are incorporated, the backwash rate
decreases with the head in the tank. The pumps used to introduce water directly into filters
are usually of the centrifugal type. The head required at the wash water inlet valve of the
filter is about 5 m.
    Flowmeters on backwash flow are important and these should have control facilities for
 setting the optimum rate, changing the rate between wash and rinse phases and, between
winter and summer periods. On large filters or filters designed for automatic washing
power assisted actuators to open and close a valve become necessary. Electric power is
 often used for operating the actuators but, pneumatically operated actuators are also
 successfully employed. In temperate and warm climates it is unnecessary to cover rapid
 gravity filters, but in very cold climates covering is required to prevent freezing. Once
 filtered, water should not be exposed to contamination and therefore all chambers and
 channels downstream should be closed. The water from a rapid gravity filter is not
 completely bacteriologically pure and, before the water passes into supply, it must be
 disinfected by the addition of chlorine or other disinfecting agent.
                                     7.29 Construction and operation of pressure filters    329




Fig. 7.17 Sectional view of a pressure filter (Paterson Candy Ltd).



7.29     Construction and operation of pressure filters
Pressure filters are similar in bed construction to open rapid gravity filters, except that
they are contained in a steel pressure vessel (see Fig. 7.17). Perforated pipes or a steel plate
with nozzles are used for collecting the filtered water and for distribution of the washwater
and air scour. The steel pressure vessel is cylindrical, arranged horizontally or vertically.
With a pipe lateral underdrain system the bottom of the vessel is usually filled with
concrete so as to obtain a flat base. In the plenum floor design a steel plate into which
nozzles are screwed, is used. In a horizontal vessel, vertical plates are welded inside to give
a rectangular shaped sand bed within the cylinder so that the bed may be washed evenly
and there are no 'dead' areas beneath which air scour and water pipes cannot be placed.
Ideally, the top of the sand in a horizontal vessel should coincide with the horizontal
diameter to give the maximum sand surface area. The whole of the cylinder is kept filled
with water under pressure and at the highest point an air release valve is inserted for the
release of trapped air. For practical reasons the maximum diameter of vertical filters is
limited to about 2.75 m; in the case of horizontal filters, to the same diameter and to a
length of about 12 m.
   The backwashing of such filters is very similar to that of an open rapid gravity filter. A
bellmouth and pipe can be used for the removal of dirty washwater in a vertical filter; for
most horizontal filters a single vertical plate located near to one of the dished ends will
facilitate washwater removal, but for the larger filters, a central washout channel formed
by two vertical plates is necessary.
   The advantage of pressure filters is that the pressure of water in the mains is not lost
when the filtration process takes place, as is the case with an open rapid gravity filter
system. About 3 m head may be lost in friction through the sand bed and the inlet and
330   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

outlet fittings which includes a head loss of about 1.5-1.8 m for retention of suspended
solids. This combined head loss is between the common inlet and outlet bus mains serving
a battery of filters. Pressure filters may be interposed on a pumping line or a gravitational
line without a large loss of pressure on the supply. Air binding hence negative head rarely
occurs in pressure filters. Pressure filters are suitable for direct filtration duties and are
commonly used for iron and manganese removal in ground waters, and treatment of
stored waters.
    Pressure filters suffer from the disadvantage that the state of the bed under backwashing
conditions and when the plant is working cannot be directly observed. It is of vital
importance, therefore, that every pressure filter is fitted with an open box or dish in the
front of it, into which the washwater is turned so that at least any washing out of the sand
may be observed and the backwash rate immediately reduced.
    When coagulation or other chemical treatment is required chemicals are injected and
mixed under pressure and flocculation must be hydraulically carried out in pressure vessels
fitted with baffles. The same applies when a contact tank is needed on the downstream side
for disinfection.
    In marked contrast to rapid gravity filters pressure filter installations are not normally
provided with any form of flow control on each filter. It is not often appreciated that
without this flow control each filter in a battery of pressure filters operates as a declining
rate filter for at least part of its filtration cycle. Thus the only restriction to output through
a clean, newly washed filter is the hydraulic constraint imposed by the size of pipework at
the inlet and outlet. Sometimes an orifice plate is installed in the outlet. If an outlet
controller is fitted it modulates the outlet control valve, operating in conjunction with a
flowmeter on each filter to maintain an average flow equal to the total flow divided by the
number of filters in service. As the head loss through the filters increases the outlet valves
open to maintain the average flow. When employing flow controllers, head loss can be
monitored on individual filters. The filter run can be terminated either on headloss, length
of filter run or turbidity breakthrough.
    The equipment required for air scouring pressure filters is similar to that used for rapid
gravity filters, and the same applies to the type of equipment provided if power assisted
opening and closing of filter valves is called for. For backwashing, as an alternative to
direct use of pumps or overhead tank, a system is often devised to take advantage of the
water pressure available from a battery of filters. For a filter washed by separate air and
water the required rate of application of water is about four times as great as the rate of
filtration which is about 5-6 m/h. Thus in a large filter battery of about 15 filters, groups
of five filters can be taken out of service at a time and the combined filtrate from four of
the filters can be used to wash the fifth filter, and so on, until all filters in the group are
washed. In large pressure filter plants arrangements are usually made to wash filters in
 groups at a specific time each day. Monitoring of individual filters for loss of head is
 seldom done except when outlet flow control is used. In fact, because a large battery of
 filters is usually supplied by a common inlet bus main, and the outlets from filters also
 connect to a common outlet bus main, it is only meaningful therefore to measure the
 headloss across the battery of filters. Individual filtrates could usefully be monitored for
 turbidity.
    The steel shells require careful maintenance so as to prevent both internal and external
 corrosion. Condensation upon the outside of the tanks is a continual nuisance as it will
 cause corrosion of the steel shell and staining of the floor below. The pressure applied to
                                                          7.30 Use of anthracite media     331


steel pressure filters is not usually in excess of 80 m head of water. This should normally be
adequate for most distribution systems. Above this pressure the thickness of plates used
for the steel shell may be so great that cost rises rapidly. Due to the limitations imposed on
capacity and pretreatment, their application over rapid gravity filters is restricted to small
plants which are required to be installed into a pumping system without breaking the
hydraulic gradient and for iron and manganese removal, primarily in ground waters. More
recently they are being used as GAC adsorbers for organics removal.


Multilayer and other methods of filtration
7.30 Use of anthracite media
As referred to previously in Section 7.26, the most efficient form of media grading for a
rapid gravity downflow filter in order to obtain maximum capture of solids would be to
have the sand decreasing in size in the direction of flow. Clearly this is not possible because
hydraulic regrading takes place during backwash, so that the finer sand collects at the
surface of the bed. This can be countered by using separate layers of different filter
materials having different density and grain size, the denser materials being at the bottom
of the bed and the less dense at the top. One type of multilayer filter bed in wide use at
present is the two-layer filter using anthracite over sand. The specific gravity of anthracite
(1.4-1.45) is lower than that of sand (2.6-2.7). It has been found that the filtrate quality
from anthracite-sand can be as good as that from conventional sand only filtration, but
because of in-depth clogging of anthracite and therefore its capacity to retain solids
throughout its entire depth and the less rapid development of headloss, filter runs can be
 1.5-3 times longer. A layer of anthracite is usually incorporated in a filter to extend filter
runs. They are usually operated at filtration rates similar to those used on coarse
homogenous sand filters although high filtration rates, even up to 15 m3/h.m 2 can be
achieved but, at the cost of short filter runs; a summary of the effects has been given by
Miller. 86 The size of the anthracite used is usually 1.25-2.50 mm (effective size 1.3 mm) or
1.4-2.5 mm (effective size 1.6 mm) and uniformity coefficient < 1.5. This is usually placed
over 0.5-1.0 mm (effective size 0.55 m) but sometimes on 0.6-1.18 mm (effective size
0.75 mm) sand. Larger size anthracite has been tried, but variable results have been
reported. 87 Typically the depth of the anthracite bed is of the order of 0.15-0.3 m with
sufficient sand to give a combined depth of 0.75 m. Deeper anthracite layers (up to 0.5 m)
can be used to give more capacity but with a corresponding increase in the depth of the
sand layer (up to 0.6 m) to ensure good filtrate quality throughout the filter run. The sand
should be supported on layers of gravel, the same as for graded sand filters (see Section
7.26). For plenum floor design a shallow gravel layer (100 mm of 4-8 mm) is normally
used. Sources of anthracite (carbon content at least 90%) are limited to a few countries in
the world. Therefore there is a tendency to use high grade bituminous coal (carbon content
at least 80%) in place of anthracite. This is generally acceptable provided it is non-friable
and can meet the standards for friability and acid solubility (see Section 7.26) and
hardness. 8~176
   Beds of anthracite can be expanded or fluidised at about the same backwash rate as a
sand bed when the size of the anthracite grains is about 1.5-3 times that of the sand grains.
Backwash rates are used to give 10-15% expansion of the sand-anthracite bed with an
occasional wash at higher rate to give about 30% bed expansion for regrading the media.
The rates are viscosity dependent and therefore affected by the water temperature. Wash
332    Storage, clarification and filtration of water

Table 7.10 Wash rates (mm/s) for anthracite-sand filters at varying water temperatures

                           Water temperature (~
Bed expansion %             5           10              15       20           25          30
10                          4.5          5.3             6.2      7.2          8.0         8.9
15                          6.5          7.5             8.3      9.2         10.0        10.7
30                         11.4         12.1            12.8     13.5         14.3        15.3


rates required for a bed of anthracite (effective size 1.3 mm) and sand (effective size 0.55 or
0.75 mm) are given in Table 7.10.
   Filters are cleaned by air scour followed by water backwash. Air scour rate applied is
about 8-12 mm/s. Simultaneous application of air and water in a conventional filter
normally used for coarse homogenous sand filters is not suitable because the washwater
will carry the lighter anthracite to waste. However this can be overcome by providing the
filter with high level suspended washwater collection troughs in place of the conventional
low level collection channel. The sequence consists of simultaneous application of air at
16 mm/s and water at about 2 mm/s as for coarse homogenous sand filters; air is turned
off before the water level reaches the cill of the trough weir and the wash rate is then
increased to about 16 mm/s for rinsing and regrading the media. The troughs are usually
placed with invert level about 600 mm above the unexpanded media surface.
   After backwashing, the two-layer bed settles down again with the anthracite on top
(subject to a relatively small amount of mixing). Backwashing at fluidisation velocities
results in the regrading each of the filtering layers by grain size, in particular with
anthracite layer since it is heterogenous and fragile.


7.31     Use of anthracite to uprate filters
In recent years advantage has been taken of these higher filtration rates to uprate the
output of existing filter plants by changing their media from sand to anthracite-sand, the
previously conventional filtration rates of 4-6 m3/h.m 2 for graded sand filters being
increased to rates of 6-12 m3/h.m 2. Increases of plant output capacity in the range 33-
50%, and in some cases 100%, have been achieved. However, these increases have
frequently been associated with the improvement of floc characteristics by the addition of
a polyelectrolyte as a coagulant aid. It is important to pay attention to floc size when
adopting anthracite filters: too fine a floc may pass through the anthracite layer and cause
too large a load to reach sand below; too large a floc in relation to the anthracite size may
place too large a load on to the anthracite, defeating the object of gaining filtration in
depth by using anthracite and sand. Since anthracite is an expensive material compared to
sand it is important to ensure a filter is adequately designed hydraulically before anthracite
is used for uprating. This means checking that the inlet, outlet, and flow control pipes and
valves can accept the higher flow rates; that the distribution of water at the inlet to the
filter does not cause excessive scouring of the anthracite-sand bed because of the higher
flow rate; that the higher backwash rate required does not result in loss of anthracite over
the washwater weir; that the washwater discharge channel is of sufficient size and gradient
to accept the increased backwash without backing up, and the design of the filter
underdrain system can accept higher upthrusts.
                                            7.32 Granular activated carbon adsorbers     333


  With a water which produces a fragile floc at the sedimentation stage it may be
necessary to add a dose of polyelectrolyte to the water before it passes on to the
anthracite-sand beds in order to prevent excessive penetration of floc into the bed. The
same precaution may be necessary to prevent the penetration of algae, as reported at the
Iver treatment plant 91 where polyelectrolyte was used to arrest penetration through the
anthracite and sand by small green algae, dominated by minute species Nannochlorb and
Ank&trodesmus with cell diameters of 4-8 microns.



7.32    Granular activated carbon adsorbers
Granular activated carbon (GAC) adsorbers employed for organics removal (see Chapter
8) are similar to sand filters of the rapid gravity or pressure type except that gravity type
adsorbers are usually enclosed in, a building or fully covered. Some GAC adsorbers
contain two beds separated by the washout channel and operating in series; water flows up
one and down the other. When the first bed is exhausted the partly spent carbon from the
second bed is transferred to the first bed, and freshly reactivated carbon is added to the
second bed. The flow rates, wash rates and wash methods are similar to conventional
adsorbers. The principal advantage of the design is that the GAC is more efficiently
utilised.
   GAC is a good filter medium as well and therefore can be used on its own for filtration
of turbidity. At the 160 M1/day Iver treatment works in Buckinghamshire, UK, GAC is
used as the primary filtration medium. GAC should be reactivated as and when it is
exhausted with respect to organic compounds. Filtration rates vary from about 6-7.5 m3/
h.m 2 for filtration and up to 15 m3/h.m 2 for adsorption. Media depth is a function of the
empty bed contact time which could vary between 5-30 minutes; for filtration only duties
the media depth is about 1-1.2 m while depths about 2 m (for gravity filters) and 3 m (for
pressure filters) are used for adsorption. Effective size of GAC varies with the type and the
application and usually lies in the range 0.6-1.1 mm. GAC should not be friable and
should be tested for friability. 8~ Water soluble ash should be less than 1% w/w. For GAC
activated by phosphoric acid the phosphate content should not exceed 1% w/w.
   GAC is placed in the adsorber on 50 mm of gravel or directly on appropriate filter
nozzles. Since the adsorbers are washed by the sequential application of air and water
most types of underdrain systems would be suitable. GAC adsorbers are washed using air
at the rate of 14 mm/s applied at 0.35 bar followed by water at the rate of about 5-12 mm/
s depending on the effective size, base material of the GAC (i.e. coal, wood, peat or
coconut) and water temperature, to give 20-30% expansion of the carbon bed. Wash rates
for different grades of a coal-based GAC at varying water temperatures to give 20 and
30% bed expansion are given in Table 7.11.
   When reactivation of the carbon is required it is usually removed from the adsorber by
means of a water operated eductor or by recessed impeller centrifugal pumps of rotational
speed less than 1000 rpm. In some designs adsorbers are provided with a sloping floor or
recessed drain in the floor discharging to a collector system. GAC should be removed as a
20%v/v (10% w/w)slurry and pipeline velocities should be maintained within 1.5-2.0 m/s.
All pipework, in particular bends, should be in stainless steel. Straight lengths could be in
ABS or uPVC. Bend radii should be 5-10 pipe diameters. The same equipment and design
parameters should be used for carbon placement in adsorbers.
Table 7.11    Wash rates (mm/s) for GAC to give 20% and 30% bed expansions at varying water temperature (Source: Chemviron Carbon Ltd, UK)

             Iodine    BET surface       GAC size     Effective size   Water temperature (~
             No. (a)   area (m2/g) (b)   range (mm)   range (mm)
Grade                                                                  5           10          15           20           25           30
F200          850       900              0.425-1.70   0.6-0.7          4.5 (5.6)   5.0 (6.4)   5.8 (7.2)    6.3 (7.8)    6.7 (8.3)    6.9 (8.6)
F300          950      1000              0.600-2.36   0.8-1.0          6.4 (8.1)   6.9 (8.9)   7.8 (10.0)   8.5 (10.3)   9.0 (11.4)   9.3 (11.5)
F400         1050      1100              0.425-1.70   0.6-0.7          3.9 (5.0)   4.7 (6.0)   5.3 (6.7)    5.8 (7.2)    6.4 (8.1)    6.5 (8.2)
TL830        1050      1050              0.85-2.00    0.9-1.1          6.9 (8.9)   7.8 (9.7)   8.6 (10.3)   8.9 (10.8)   9.5 (11.7)   9.7 (11.8)

Values for 30% bed expansion shown in brackets.
(a)Iodine number: It indicates a GAC's ability to adsorb organic compounds and be regenerated. It should be greater than 500 mg/g of carbon (see
A W W A Standard for GAC, A W W A B604-90).
(b)BET surface area: It indicates the surface area available for adsorbates in water. Measured by N2-BET method (Brunauer S., Emmet P. H. and
Teller E., Adsorption of Gases in Multimolecular Layers. J Am Chem Sor 60, 1938, pp. 309-319).
                                                                    7.34 Direct filtration   335

   Virgin and reactivated GAC contain contaminants which would leach out into the
filtrate when first placed in adsorbers. They include sulphides, sulphites and bisulphites
(causing chlorine demand and odours), alkali (resulting in high pH), phosphates (if
phosphoric acid is used in the activation process) and metals such as aluminium, iron,
manganese and copper. Repeated backwashing with water followed by running to waste of
the filtrate should be carried out until tests confirm that water is of acceptable quality for
supply. The impact of reactivated GAC on water quality could be minimised by pre- and
post-acid wash in the reactivation process.


7.33     Upward flow filtration
Upward flow filtration with upflow washing has been used for a few potable water
treatment plants in the UK, but its use is more appropriate to industrial water
applications, as roughing filters ahead of slow sand filters or to tertiary sewage filtration
where a high standard of filtrate quality is not so important. The principle used in upflow
filters is to have progressively finer sand in the direction of flow, which allows the filter to
carry a greater load of impurity before backwashing because the larger particles tend to be
held in the lower, coarser part of the filter, leaving the upper layers to deal with the smaller
particles. However, unless the finer grades of sand are restrained they would be washed
away at higher rates of filtration, as well as during the backwashing stage, and
consequently designers have introduced a number of techniques to stop this occurring.
One method is to use a filtrate collector pipe system just buried in the top layer of fine
sand, with strainers located on the side of the pipes so that filtrate water flow has to
change from a vertical to a horizontal direction, thus preventing expansion of the sand.
During backwashing the filtrate collector is not used and dirty washwater escapes from an
elevated trough. The design of upflow filter most commonly used in the UK is one which
contains a grid, square in section, located about 0.1 m below the surface of the sand.
During filtration the sand arches between individual members of the grid and prevents
expansion of the sand, whilst during backwashing the arches are intentionally broken by
successive applications of air and backwash water. Piped lateral floors with large orifice
nozzles are used to distribute the incoming water. Screening of the raw water to remove
leaves and other debris is essential to prevent blockages.
   Claims have been made that upflow filters can be operated at filtration rates greatly in
excess of conventional downflow rates: in practice the rates are not greatly or always in
excess of what can be achieved with multilayer filtration (see Section 7.30).


7.34     Direct filtration
Some surface waters can be treated by coagulation, flocculation and rapid filtration
(gravity or pressure), eliminating clarification. Such waters need to be carefully selected
and pilot tested. In general a water source is considered to be suitable for direct filtration
when turbidity and colour values are less than 10 NTU and 25 ~ Hazen, respectively, with
peaks of 40 NTU and 40 ~ Hazen for periods less than 24 hours. The total organic carbon
value should be less than about 2 mg/1 as it influences the coagulant requirement. The
coagulant dose should be no more than 1 mg/1 as A1 or 1.5 mg/1 as Fe, although higher
doses for short periods are acceptable. A polyelectrolyte may be used as a coagulant aid.
Algae, both the filter clogging and passing types can cause problems such as shortened
336    Storage, clarification and filtration of water

filter runs, if numbers are high; 92 an upper limit of 2000 asu/ml* for diatoms is reported. 93
The total flocculated solids load on to the filters should be limited to about 20-25 rag/l,
with short-term peaks up to about 60 mg/1. Direct filtration operates well on micro-flocs;
flocculation requirements are given in Section 7.13. The filters used are either monograde
sand (ES 0.9 mm) deep bed (0.9-1.0 m) or anthracite-sand containing 0.3 to 0.4 m
anthracite (ES 1.3 mm) and 0.6 m graded sand (ES 0.55 mm) (see Sections 7.26 and 7.30).
Filtration rates should be maintained below about 7.5 m3/h.m 2. Plants provided with
clarifiers treating water showing seasonal variations in quality may be provided with
facilities to bypass the clarifiers when the water is suitable for direct filtration.


7.35     Filter problems
Filter problems are common in many of the older water treatment works. The problems
are due to incorrect design (filtration and wash rates, media grading, flow control method,
etc.) for the water to be treated, poor hydraulic design, use of unsuitable material, bad
installation in particular of the underdrain system and mal-operation. These result in short
filter runs, inefficient filter cleaning (dirty filters), very high starting head loss (up to 1 m)
media loss, loss in capacity and shortfalls in filtered water quality and sometimes even
ruptured filter underdrain systems. Installation problems include damaged or blocked
nozzles, incorrect levelling of the floor or pipe laterals and nozzles (outside their tolerance
limits), construction debris in the pipe laterals or the space below the floor and poor
sealing of the floor slabs or pipe/duct joints. These flaws can be checked before placing the
media by a hydraulic pressure test with all the nozzles plugged and by testing for uniform
air distribution with about 150 mm of water in the filter sufficient to cover the nozzles.
The observation of air scour pattern during backwash is a way of identifying underdrain
problems in operating filters.
    Blocked nozzles (usually the result of construction debris left in the underdrains) can
result in high pressures in the underdrain system leading to its rupture. The risk of damage
to the underdrain system can be minimised by incorporating a standpipe with free
discharge in the washwater main. A pressure relief valve is not recommended. Damaged
nozzles are a common problem with operating filters as this could occur when placing the
media. Damaged nozzles allow sand into the underdrain system reducing its capacity and
during washing they can cause channelling, sand boils, high localised velocities with sand
ingress into support layers and gravel brought to the surface by jetting (see below) and loss
of media. Sand boils and consequent upset of gravel layers can also be the result of sudden
introduction of backwash water. Some channelling and sand leakage into the underdrain
 system could be attributed to incorrect sizing of sand and gravel media or use of nozzles
with a slot size incompatible with the media size.
    Deficient washing results in the build up of floc and organic matter (algal and detrital)
 ultimately leading to the formation of mud balls and jetting (build up of columns of
 support gravel through the media), cracks in the filter bed and bed shrinkage with media
 pulling away from the walls. Sometimes the presence of residual polyelectrolyte in the
 clarified water due to overuse can encourage mud ball formation. A good analysis of filter
 problems is given in References 49, 94 and 95. The problem of air binding is discussed in

*asu/ml = areal standard units/ml; 1 asu is 20 x 20 #m and for a medium-sized algae 1 asu/ml can
be approximated to 0.1 #g/1 of chlorophyll 'a'.
                                                                                                   7.36 Membrane filtration                       337


Section 7.26. It is important that filter washes are frequently witnessed to identify
problems early to allow corrective measures to be taken. Observations to be made include
uniformity of air distribution, undisturbed areas, sand boils, mud balls, and media
carryover. The wash efficiency of a filter can be checked by taking core samples from
several places in the bed after backwashing and analysing 250 ml of media from different
depths in each sample for suspended solids by washing it thoroughly with water (up to
250 ml) and measuring the solids by volume using an Imhoff cone. For a good wash, it
should be less than 2% v/v. An alternative criteria defined by Bauer 41 based on Thames
Water experience is that the sand after backwashing should contain particulate organic
carbon less than 0.4 g/1 and suspended solids less than 2.4 g/1 of filter medium.


7.36       Membrane filtration
Membrane filtration employs a semipermeable membrane to separate materials according
to their physical and chemical properties when a pressure differential or electrical potential
difference (electrodialysis- see Section 8.45) is applied across the membrane. Pressure
driven processes can be broadly classified according to the membrane pore size and size of
particles removed (see Fig. 7.18). They are microfiltration (MF), ultra-filtration (UF),



               i Organic compounds ]]
               '1 IIII III [                i I IIII
        Dissolved salts [                              Organic macromolecules                                           Algae
         C,     g,


                                                         Viruses
                                                                               I I,_

                                                                                                    Bacteria
                                                                                                               IIII      1 I


                                                                                       !                I IIII III
                                                                                                       Protozoan I
                                                                                                      i para~ite~ I

        I IIIIl[I
0.0001 gm  0.001 gm
                   I                         IIIII I
                                            0.01 gm
                                                                   !!
                                                                   1 gm                    1 gm
                                                                                                                  III
                                                                                                                  iii




                                                                                                                10 gm
                                                                                                                                         IIIII
                                                                                                                                        100 gm
    I      I        I1111      I                                   .i .i
                                                                               I




                               I                                   II
        Reverse



                                                                   IL
        osmosis
                I i11111
                                                                           I
                                                                               I

                          Nano                                     II
                       filtration
                               I    I   I

                                               Ultra
                                            filtration

                                                                                           Micro
                                                                                       filtration

                                                                               L I IIIIIIII             III                     Sand
                                                                                                                             filtration
                                                                                                                         I   I   I   I I II II1

Fig. 7.18 Comparison of treatment methods with particle size.
338   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

nanofiltration (NF) and reverse osmosis (RO). NF, which is also called low-pressure RO,
and RO are used to remove ions by osmosis and are discussed under desalination (see
Section 8.46). MF and UF are micro-porous and remove particles by physical separation.
They are therefore low pressure processes unlike RO and NF. The characteristics of
membranes and therefore their performance is specific to the particular membrane and its
pore size distribution. MF membranes have a nominal pore size 0.1 to about 5 #m with a
typical cut-off value of 0.2 #m. UF membranes have a pore size 0.002-0.1 #m with a
typical cut-off value of 100 kdalton* (equivalent to about 0.01 #m).
   The membrane geometry most commonly used in MF and UF is hollow fine fibre;
lumen (or internal bore) diameter range typically from 0.4 to 1.5 mm for MF and 0.35 to
1.0 mm for UF (see Plate 19).
   MF and UF membranes remove particles which are an order of magnitude larger than
their pore size on the membrane surface and particles less than the pore size in pores. They
are used for particulate and micro-organism removal. Additionally, some UF membranes
also remove large molecular weight organic compounds.
   MF membranes provide a barrier to cysts and oocysts. Under laboratory conditions E.
coli and Cryptosporidium oocyst numbers were reduced to values below their detection
limits. 96 In practice MF membranes have an average removal of about 5-1ogt for Giardia
and 4-log for Cryptosporidium and the average turbidity of the permeate (the product) is
less than 0.2 NTU; values of 0.05 NTU or less have been reported. 97 Removal of viruses is
comparatively low with values ranging from less than 0.5-log to 3.5-1og. 98'99 UF
membranes by virtue of their much smaller pore size, are very effective in retaining even
smaller particles than MF membranes. UF consistently produces permeates with turbidity
less than 0.1 NTU even from feed water turbidities as high as 300 NTU. 96 Removal of
micro-organisms is reported to be greater than 5-log for Giardia and 4-log for
Cryptosporidium, 8-log for E. coli and 4-log for viruses. 96 Therefore UF systems can
provide total disinfection, and marginal chlorination of the permeate (the product) will be
necessary for maintaining a residual in the distribution system. In practice, however, there
is always the risk of particle and micro-organism leakage due to membrane imperfections
and damage, and facilities for disinfection should be allowed.
   MF and UF processes are operated either in cross-flow or dead-end mode. In the former
only part of the inflow is filtered through the membrane; the remainder flows tangential to
the membrane surface carrying with it the particulates removed on the surface and
recirculated back to the feed water supply. The suspended solids concentration in the
recycle is sometimes controlled by a continuous bleed (blow-down) to waste. In the dead-
end mode all the water passes through the membrane and the retained particles build up as
 a cake on the surface; therefore there is total water recovery. This mode is usually used for
 UF when the raw water has an average turbidity <2 NTU and total organic carbon
 <2 mg/1; 1~176higher values can be tolerated but, at the expense of frequent backwashing
 and fouling. Dead-end mode can only be used with hollow fibre systems. Both M F and
 UF systems can be designed to operate on both modes with changeover effected on feed
 water quality. The membrane flux for most commercial MF and UF membranes ranges

*UF membranes are normally classified based on molecular weight cut-off (MWCO) which is
usually defined as the smallest molecular weight species for which the membrane has more than 90%
rejection and is expressed in dalton, which is a unit which designates 1/16 mass of lightest and most
abundant isotope of oxygen.
tx-log removal = 100 (1-10-x)%; therefore 4-log removal -- 99.99%, 2.5-1og removal = 99.68%.
                                                                 7.36 Membrane filtration      339


between 0.08-0.2 m3/h.m 2 at 20~ and varies with water temperature; flux is proportional
to exp (-0.0239)(7-20); 20~ being the reference temperature. 96 The feed pressure varies
in the range from 0.5 to 3.5 bar with a drop in pressure across the membrane (trans-
membrane pressure) in the range 0.1-1 bar. Feed water recovery varies between 85 and
98% depending on the operating mode and raw water quality having made an allowance
for backwash water which can be about 1-10% of product flow.
   The build up of particles on the membrane surface increases hydraulic resistance and
reduces the membrane flux. This is called fouling. Surface fouling is usually reversible and
the flux can be reinstated by backwashing. Membrane systems are operated either as
constant rate (variable pressure) or declining rate (constant pressure). Once the membrane
surface has a cake layer formed they are cleaned by water backwash using the permeate (one
commercial MF design employs compressed air for dislodging particles from the membrane
followed by crossflow flush using raw water on the shell side). Cleaning may be initiated by
pressure, time or after a pre-set volume of permeate has been collected. In practice,
depending on the feed water quality and operating mode, backwash frequency ranges
between once every 30 minutes to 3 hours and duration ranges between 30 seconds and
3 minutes. The introduction of backwash water should be gradual to prevent membrane
damage. The fouling in membrane pores is not reversible and cannot be removed by
backwashing. This is mostly caused by adsorption of organic matter and precipitation of
calcium carbonate and oxides of iron and manganese. Intermittent chemical cleaning is then
employed. Typical cleaning agents are chlorine solutions, acids, alkali, detergents and
oxidising solutions (e.g. hydrogen peroxide), depending on the type of fouling.
   One of the most critical aspects of membrane plant operation is the risk of membrane
failure. On-line particle counters are usually used for monitoring membrane integrity and
their effectiveness depends on the particle load in the feed; turbidity monitors are not
sensitive enough for the purpose. Other methods include routine microbiological testing,
and membrane off-line tests such as sonic sensors for hydraulic noise analysis, air-bubble
and air pressure holding tests 96'1~ whereby fibre breakage can be measured against the
differential pressure.
   MF and UF membranes are commonly available as hollow fine fibre, hollow capillary
fibre, tubular and spiral wound. For drinking water treatment hollow fibre types are
mostly used. They have a high packing density (membrane area/m3). The tubular type has
a very low packing density. Spiral wound type cannot be backwashed. In the hollow fibre
type flow can be either inside-out or outside-in. The former is better for cross-flow
operating mode, has good hydrodynamic characteristics, gives a more efficient backwash
but has a greater probability of fibres becoming blocked with particulates and
comparatively higher head loss through the module. The latter gives greater filtration
area:packing density ratio and lower head loss. When operating hollow fibre system in
outside-in mode with waters containing high concentration of suspended solids,
particulate can become trapped between fibres, eventually leading to fibre breakage.
This would be the case with systems using high packing density. In inside-out systems
particles tend to block the fibres and cause fibre failure. The material used for membrane
making for drinking water application must have good tolerance to pH and oxidising
agents. Most hollow fibre membranes are made from polyethersulphone (PES) (pH 1-13
and chlorine C T l o > 10 6 mg.h/l*). Others include cellulose acetate (CA) (pH 4-8.5,

*Chlorine CT10 is the product chlorine concentration (mg/1) x the contact time (hours) resulting in
10% reduction in mechanical properties of fibres.
340   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

chlorine CT10 > l0 s mg.h/1), polypropylene (PP) (pH 1-13 and CT10 < 102 mg.h/1) and
polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) which has higher chlorine and pH tolerance. CA
membranes are biodegradable and therefore bacteria need to be removed from its surface.
In potable water treatment applications pH of the water is unlikely to fall outside the
range for CA membranes and pH correction is rarely needed.
   Both MF and UF systems can be applied directly on raw water with only a pre-filtration
stage to reduce particle size to a range 50-200/zm depending on the internal diameter of
the inlet ports and fibres. Membrane processes can be preceded by powdered activated
carbon dosing or coagulation using aluminiurn or iron salts for organics removal, or used
downstream of clarifiers as a filtration stage or downstream of rapid or slow sand filters as
a polishing stage. When iron and manganese are present, they should be oxidised and
precipitated prior to membrane filtration to prevent their precipitation within the pores or
on the permeate side of the membrane during backwashing with chlorinated water. The
quality of the permeate with respect to particle and micro-organism removal is not
influenced by their numbers in the feed water.
   A typical plant consists of raw water pumps feeding a bank or several banks of
membrane modules,* recirculation pumps for cross-flow mode operation with capacity to
give recirculation flow to raw water flow ratio in the range 3:1-6:1 depending on the raw
water quality and backwash pumps. Membrane banks are backwashed sequentially.
Backwash pressure varies in the range 1-2.5 bar. All pumps used on a membrane plant are
usually of the centrifugal type. Both MF and UF systems can be staged with used
backwash water and the bleed from the recirculation water treated in a second stage. A
flow schematic diagram of a typical membrane plant is shown in Fig. 7.19. At the 65 M1/
day Homesford water treatment works, Severn Trent Water (see Plate 19), a groundwater
is treated by MF using a hollow fibre membrane which utilises air to backwash; the
product having particle numbers less than 10/ml (> 2 #m) and turbidity less than
0.1 NTU. Used backwash water is treated in a second stage. Total water recovery is
99.9%. MF and UF membranes are usually pressure driven and are installed within
pressure vessels. There is however an adaption of MF and UF membrane processes that
consists of outside-in, hollow fibre membrane modules which are immersed vertically in
the raw water in a tank. The permeate is removed from either one or both ends under a
vacuum (125-325 mbar) produced by the use of a centrifugal pump. Air is diffused into
the bottom of the membrane module to create turbulence which helps to clean the
membranes, thus maintaining the flux rate. The concentrate containing suspended solids is
periodically purged from the tank. Stored permeate is pumped in the reverse direction
(inside-out) atregular intervals to control fouling and reduce the frequency of chemical
cleaning. 1~
   The operating costs for a membrane plant is primarily made up of energy, membrane
replacement and labour components and in the case of an MF plant each contributes
 about 15-25% of the total cost with general maintenance, cleaning chemicals and waste
 disposal contributing about another 15-20%. 1~




*A module consists of several membrane elements in a pressure shell complete with feed inlet ports,
distributors, outlets and permeate removal points. Several modules may be connected in series. In a
bank several modules may be connected in parallel.
                                                                                      7.37 Miscellaneous filters                     341

                              Backwash bleed                                                      _J             ~         Chemical
   9                  r I g I " i I !                                                             "1             /         waste
         Membrane ~ R*            r~                      [                   0.85Q ~                        ~                   ,
            m~176                 I/
 Chemical dosing                                                                                                           ~         \
 (coagulant, PAC, [          [ /l"-c~       ', I                          .       .        .      , "        I         I             \
 pH correction, etc                                                                                                        Cleaning
                 /                                                                                                         chemical
                 "-- 'c~ ...... ~2:.,Zo:, I                       ........ -1-.. I/1 .....      ~--                 I I       tanks
 ~ a       Pref'lter Redrculation D'um~..... I                               1"4   /I---,-,       i!                 II
__.ff p'ump~Q         pumpQ+R''                       i ~ I         Feedl       L] //~            I ;I               II Chl~
                  L ........ : ........              I!-~-I         pump I ...t-/-----~--~;                          I I /
                    First stage                  "    ! ..... !   = C) " ~         a~ckwash [ I {        I       {{ / I sTpp,y
                                                     First stage
                                                     FirwSta~ttage[-~--------- ~---2~-'b        ~-I        -=- I 0"98Q
                                                                                                         ---=-
       *Cross-flowmode R=2Qto5Q.                       0.15Q         Second IqecirculationI i / ....~ i T t '
        Dead-end mode   R=0 -
                   ,ode-R=0                                           stage " ~ p uum
                                                                      stage         ~ ..... I /     ..... rea eo     I '~ator
                                                                                               Second stage waste
                                                                                                        0.02Q
Fig. 7.19    Schematic flow diagram of a two-stage membrane filtration plant.



7.37        Miscellaneous              filters

A design of filter mainly to be found in the USA known as the 'Green leaf' filter consists of
a number of conventional, open type, rapid gravity filters, constructed in concrete, which
surround a central control section, constructed in concrete or steel, which houses all the
filter controls. The principal difference in operation is that siphons are used for inlet flow
control and backwash, instead of backwash pumps or an overhead tank. Water is
maintained at a constant level by a weir in the effluent chamber and as one of the filter
units becomes progressively dirty the level in the filter shell rises until the inlet flow is
stopped, either manually or by automatic operation of a siphon break. Washing is usually
performed by a separate air application, followed by a water wash using the filtered water
from the remaining filters and the head created by the outlet weir in the effluent chamber.
This head is about 1.5 m above the top of the sand bed which is low for backwashing a
sand filter, particularly if it is in a dirty condition. A compact arrangement can be
obtained using this design of filter, but it would be prudent not to use it for the treatment
of difficult waters because of the backwashing constraints.
   The 'ASF' automatic gravity valveless filter has three sections: backwash storage space,
filter bed and filtered water storage space. Raw water flows downward through the sand
bed whilst filtered water flows out via the backwash compartment. As the filter bed
becomes dirty the level in the raw water pipe and backwash pipe (which contains a U-
bend) rises and initiates the siphon action that backwashes the filter. When the level in the
backwash compartment falls and exposes the end of the siphon breaker backwash stops
and filtration re-starts.
    There are some continuous flow filters in use. In one such design known as moving hood
or moving bridge filter, the filter is made up of 10-50 individual cells each of plan
dimensions up to 1 x 5 m and capacity up to 50 m3/h with a common filtered water
342   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

compartment underneath; filter media depths range from 450 to 600 mm. Such filters are
available in total lengths up to 50 m. Only one cell at a time is backwashed. A travelling
bridge which spans the width of the filter carries beneath it a backwash hood of the same
dimensions as a single cell, with a suction pump connected to it. During backwash, the
hood is lowered and placed tightly over a cell, the pump starts and washes the filter by
'vacuum cleaner' action. The washwater is available from the remaining filter cells in
service.
   In another design which is made up of a vertical hopper bottomed cylindrical vessel
filled with sand, raw water is introduced into the cylindrical section just above the hopper
and flows upward through the sand bed counter-current to the sand moving continually
downwards and leaves the filter at the top over an outlet weir, e.g. 'Dynasand'. The sand
containing dirt is conveyed from the hopper section by an air-lift pump; the turbulent
action of the pump cleans the sand with additional cleaning in a sand washer at the top
where it is cleaned mechanically or hydraulically. The cleaned sand is returned to the top
of the filter. Filtration rates can vary in the range 8-15 m3/h.m 2. They are used as primary
filters ahead of slow sand filters or in direct filtration mode with coagulation. In the latter
case filtrate turbidity can be less than 1 NTU. Water loss through sand cleaning is in the
range 5-8% of the inflow. Nowadays where filters are expected to meet stringent
performance requirements with respect to washing and filtration, these specialist filters are
no match to conventional rapid gravity filters.
    Filtration of water and other fluids can be achieved with diatomaceous earth filters, or
pre-coat filters, where the filtering medium is formed on septums or 'candles' of metal or
other materials inside a type of pressure vessel. Excellent removal of suspended matter
may be achieved. In the UK they are sometimes used for swimming baths and for small
private supplies, but only occasionally for public water supplies. A good account of the
process is given in Water Quality and Treatment. 60
    Cartridge filters of the woven fibre type rated at 5-10 microns are used in reverse
osmosis plants preceding high pressure feed pumps. These filters remove particulate
matter passing the anthracite-sand rapid gravity filters and are used as safety filters to
protect the membrane and high pressure feed pumps.
    There are so called 'depth filters' where the filtration efficiency increases with passage as
 a 'dynamic filtering' medium is deposited on a filtration surface, either from particles in
 the water being treated or by addition of a suitable fine material such as Kieselguhr
 (diatomaceous earth), Fuller's earth (a fine non-cohesive clay) or powdered activated
 carbon. The filtration surface can be fibres wound on to a cassette or a candle with
 grooves, fibres arranged in a bundle around a central core or a porous cloth woven to
 produce a series of filtration tubes. The fibrous filters are capable of filtering particles
 down to about 5 #m, and achieving Cryptosporidium oocysts removal up to l-log
 consistently. 1~ The porous cloth type is known to be capable of removing particles greater
 than 1 #m and therefore provide 2-3 log removal of oocysts.


Slow sand filtration
7.38 Introduction and history
The subject of slow sand filtration has not been discussed before in this chapter,
principally for the reason that the considerable merits of the treatment can be better
appreciated after a knowledge has been acquired of the complexities involved in treatment
                                                          7.38 Introduction and history      343


by coagulation and rapid gravity filtration. Slow sand filters were the first effective method
devised for the purification in bulk of surface waters contaminated by pathogenic bacteria.
They remain equally effective today and there is a growing number of circumstances which
suggest that their use in new works should be encouraged.
   'Slow' sand filters are so called because the rate of filtration through them may be only
one-twentieth or less of the rate of filtration through rapid gravity or pressure filters. They
were first constructed in the U K in the early nineteenth century. Their capacity for
purification is well illustrated by the history of the cholera outbreak in Hamburg in 1892.
Both Hamburg and Altona took water from the river Elbe which became contaminated
with cholera, Hamburg suffered 8600 deaths from cholera but Altona which had slow sand
filters had no cases of cholera. This vividly illustrates the ability of slow sand filters to
purify a water bacteriologically, as well as physically, and many slow sand filters are in use
today. Most of London's surface derived supplies are treated by slow sand filters, a
490 ml/day plant was added in 1972, l~ but since then a number of works have been closed
down. On some of the remaining works beds have been taken out of service as a result of
improvements made on pretreatment and filtration rate. The current total filter area is
about 42 ha and they have also been adopted in works to treat water from Lough Neagh in
Northern Ireland. x~ A summary of slow sand filter plants operated by Thames Water is
given in Table 7.12.
   Slow sand filters are an efficient method of producing water of good bacteriological and
organic quality which requires marginal chlorination before distribution. They achieve 2-4
log removal of coliforms, E. coli, pathogenic organisms, cercariae of Schistosoma, 1~ ova,
cysts such as Giardia and oocysts such as Cryptosporidium and remove viruses, reduce
colour, oxidise ammonia and organic matter and reduce turbidity to less than 1 NTU.


Table 7.12 Slow sand filter plants operated by Thames Water, UK

                    Capacity
Works               (M1/day) Pre-treatment                                  Filtration area (m2)
Ashford Common      690        Pre-ozone, anthracite-sand gravity           32 x 3121
                               filters, main ozone
Coppermills         680        Sand gravity filters, main ozone             34 x 3400
Hampton             790        Sand gravity filters, main ozone             112 900 (25 filters)
Kempton             200        Sand gravity filters, main ozone             12 x 3640
Walton              140        Pre-zone, coagulation (iron salt)            10 x 3320
                               COCO-DAFF (with anthracite-sand
                               gravity filters), main ozone, GAC filters
Fobney               75        Pre-ozone, sand upflow filters, main ozone   12 x 900

Notes. All slow sand filters (except Walton) have a GAC sandwich of 100-150 mm in a total bed
depth of 800-900 mm. In addition there is a gravel layer of 100 mm.
Filter underdrain systems are porous concrete floor type.
Filtration rate varies in the range 0.3 m/h (average) to 0.5 m/h (maximum).
For COCO-DAFF, see Section 7.18.
Post-treatment is chloramination.
All works except Fobney serves London.
Source: Thames Water, UK.
344    Storage, clarification and filtration of water


7.39     Mode of action of slow sand filters
The slow sand filter does not act by a complex straining process alone, but by a
combination of both straining and microbiological action, of which the latter is the more
important. The mode of operation is complex and is, from time to time, a subject of
argument between experts. There is no doubt, however, that purification of the water takes
place not only at the surface of the bed but also for some distance below. Van de Vloedl~
has given as clear an account as any of the details of the purification process. He
distinguishes three zones of purification in the bed: (1) the surface coating, the
'schmutzdecke', (2) the 'autotrophic' zone existing a few millimetres below the
schmutzdecke, and (3) the 'heterotrophic' zone which extends some 300 mm into the bed.
   When a new filter is put into commission and raw water is passed through it, during the
first two weeks the upper layers of sand grains become coated with a sticky reddish brown
deposit of partly decomposed organic matter together with iron, manganese, aluminium,
and silica. This coating tends to absorb organic matter existing in a colloidal state. After
two or three weeks there exists in the uppermost layer of the sand a film of algae, bacteria,
and protozoa, to which are added the finely divided suspended material, plankton, and
other organic matter deposited by the raw water. This skin is called the schmutzdecke and
it acts as an extremely fine-meshed straining mat.
   A few millimetres below this schmutzdecke is the autotrophic zone, where the growing
plant life breaks down organic matter, decomposes plankton, and uses up available
nitrogen, phosphates, and carbon dioxide, providing oxygen in their place. The filtrate
thus becomes oxidised at this stage.
   Below this again a still more important action takes place in the heterotrophic zone
which extends some 300 mm into the bed. Here the bacteria multiply to very large
numbers so that the breakdown of organic matter is completed, resulting in the presence of
only simple inorganic substances and unobjectionable salts. The bacteria act not only to
break down organic matter but also to destroy each other and so tend to maintain a
balance of life native to the filter so that the resulting filtrate is uniform.
   The biological processes require oxygen and if it is absent anaerobic conditions would
set in, resulting in the formation of hydrogen sulphide, ammonia, soluble iron and
manganese and taste and odour producing substances. Therefore to ensure satisfactory
operation the oxygen concentration in the filtrate should not be allowed to fall below
3 mg/1.1~ The efficiency of the process is also temperature dependent. For example the
reduction in permanganate value (a measurement of the organic content (see Section 6.31)
decreases by (T + 11)/9 where T is the water temperature in ~ 11~ Below 6~ ammonia
oxidation ceases. At low water temperatures the rate of biological reactions and activity of
bacteria consuming micro-organisms reduces rapidly and the rate of reduction in E. coli
falls sharply, thus requiring the chlorine dose to be increased. If water temperatures less
than 2~ persist for prolonged periods, consideration should be given to covering the
filters.


7.40      Construction and cleaning of slow sand filters
The bed of sand in a slow sand filter is 0.6-1.25 m thick and is laid over a supporting bed
of fine graveI, beneath which a collector pipe system is constructed. The water passes
downwards through the sand bed, through the gravel, and is collected by the pipes
                                                                                         7.40 Construction and cleaning of slow sand filters                                                                     345


beneath, the whole arrangement being sited in a shallow watertight tank of large size. In
some plants a porous concrete floor is used in place of pipes. It is important to note that
the bed is 'drowned'; it is not a trickling filter as in sewage treatment works where air is
permitted into the bed. Filtration rates used are typically 0.1-0.3 m/h. At the old Ashford
Common Works of the Thames Water Authority the sand bed was 0.675 m thick
(similarly at the 1972 Coppermills Works) and lies upon 75 mm of fine gravel which, in
turn, rests upon a bed of porous concrete (see Fig. 7.20). Each filter is about 34 m x 90 m
and the filtration rate is in excess of 0.2 m/h. Below the concrete, collector drains feed the
filtered water to the main effluent pipes. The sand is ungraded; because they are not
backwashed, hydraulic grading of the media does not occur. Size distribution in the bed is
purely random. The sand has a size range 0.21-2.36 mm (effective size of 0.30 mm) and
uniformity coefficient 1.5-3.5 (less than 2 is preferable). The stated size range is generally 5
and 90 percentiles. The sand should be hard and should not be liable to break down when
subjected to skimming and washing processes. The suspended solids and particulate
organic content of the sand should not exceed 0.5 g/1 and 0.1 g/l, respectively.
   The raw water is led gently on to the filter bed and percolates downwards. Directly after
a bed has been cleaned a head of only 50-75 mm of water is required to maintain the
design rate of flow through the bed. However, as suspended matter in the raw water is
deposited on to the surface of the bed, so a mat (or 'schmutzdecke' as it is called) of
organic and inorganic material builds up on the surface of the sand and increases the
friction loss through the bed. To maintain the flow at a uniform rate as far as possible the
head across the bed is gradually increased and when it reaches some predetermined value
between 0.6 and 0.9 m the bed must be taken out of service and cleaned. The maximum
permissible head loss should be kept to about 1 m. If fine grain sand is used then the depth


 Four openings
 0.9 m wide \                                      I~                               91.4 m long (x34.1 m wide)                                                   =1
 per filter    \                                   I                                 I                |'                                                          I
   k,: ~',.- ,"? .':! .~\.'.:2: i TWL                                                    I ~- 225 mm            |                                              [-'::."-'~1"~. _       .
   <              9 h~-'_~_'---I
                    9             =:                                                     I {-                   r-=-----                      ::        --:: : [.., .:..L---- scum outlet
   Air v e n t / i     l;.~-~-I -=-                                                      [ /                    | ~                           :=        :: : J:~-_":::=.,~. at each
  Baffled ,"                \
                           --L..~                                                                               |                                                   ~ 4 , corner
  inlet                  ,'                        I FIow                            ~> /                       <~                                                  /~;i>.-.\
  chamber,,',                                      j                                 /1                         L                                                   /:i~ !.4":~A\
                                                                                                                                                                    !:,:,',;' ::. \ , ,
                     9             ~.......~:.,...'.'..'..'.       :   9   ......'.. -                              ......." . . .   : .'..'...-.   ".:...-......::-',~.,..,        .       .



Weir of 25 mm                                =.","Filter s a h d . :it,,_._                                     I : .-Filter s a n d . :
square bars                             ~'.~.;...:'i.i..: "i. i.-i.'..i;:'..~l_~t;smmm                          ~..:ii...i~}5mm ~Nngle.i~e;~-!~.!i~!~Z~i~
          ,                          i . ) ~ ; . ~ , ] ~ . .......4 o.oe'o.
                                                                      . o . I_                                  ~ . . o.~'.o'.'oe....
                                                                                                                                  ~ 9                        ~ ~ [ . . . : . ,~. '_ ..
o: , .......
      '~     "....~,              : ~..',~'...."                                                                    ..    ,.                        .    .    .:-. . , .   .. . ~       .         :.."
             9                                                                               ' - \ 2 2 5 mm                               \F,ow
                                                               /                         '                    /'~ Central kx         .-.i:! " " ~ :~'.~,:," '~,~ .: 1
                 9            9




          Inlet                                           Porous concrete         ~                             [ collecting channel :"":'"~ .,.....~..~::_~..:L~J
                                                          underdrain           /                                I....                ":"". ~~. :_". ;.-~.";-,~ - I -
                                                          syatem             Slotted                            ~:'.~~             _~,-~---~---+-j.-.-~t.-rh
                                                                         cover slabs                            I                                                                               i--;-::ff
                                                                       over channel                                       i:~..:.:.~,:..;:...:~;:,, ~,./,:. :,',-" 9\:'a,,,: ' . |
                                                                                                                                                              225          mm                   375      mm
                                                                                                                                                               drain                            outlet    pipe


Fig. 7.20 Slow sand filters at Coppermills Works of Thames Water Authority, 1972.
346   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

should be reduced to minimise the resistance. To prevent negative head the maximum
permissible headloss must be kept less than the depth of water on top of the sand.
Normally the water depth above the sand bed is maintained at about 1-1.5 m with a
maximum of 2 m. As a further preventative measure the outlet weir should be set above
the media surface level.
   When a sand bed requires cleaning it is drained of water and the top 12-25 mm of the
sand surface are carefully scraped off. The filter is then returned to service by gradually
increasing the flow over 24 hours, sometimes longer. When the sand bed again requires
cleaning a further 12-25 mm of sand are scraped from the surface, and this process is
repeated until the bed is thinned to the minimum practical thickness for efficient filtering
which should not be less than 0.5 m . 11~ When this stage is reached the bed is then topped
up with clean new sand to its original level or the old sand may be replaced if it has been
adequately washed and cleaned in a sand cleaning machine.
   The interval between scraping may vary from several months during the winter when
pre-filtration is installed, to 10 days where no pre-filtration occurs and algal growth is at a
maximum. Resanding would only be necessary every 2-5 years depending on the scraping
frequency. Originally, slow sand filters were invariably scraped by manual labour
(typically for scraping" 5 person-hours/100 m 2 and resanding" 50 person-hours/
100 m2), 111 but the increased cost and decreased availability of this type of labour has
led to the introduction of mechanical methods in particular for large plants thereby
reducing labour, typically to about 2-4 person-hours/100 m 2 for scraping and 5-8 person-
hours/100 m E for resanding. Resanding by wet slurry method is reported to reduce labour
requirement further. 112 Some of the mechanical methods are fairly simple, e.g. using small
vehicles with a skimmer bucket discharging to trucks. One of the difficulties of
mechanising the cleaning of the older slow sand filters is that their sizes and geometry
were often not uniform since these factors were unimportant in the days of manual
cleaning. However, with new installations, provided that the filters are constructed with
the correct dimensions, it is possible to span them with a standard sand lifting bridge
which runs on tracks along the sides of the filters, thus greatly reducing the labour
necessary for scraping. 113 G r e y 1~ reports details of such an installation at Lough Neagh.
Other cleaning methods used are wet harrowing and flushing 114,115 which does not disturb
the attached bacteria and the use of a suction dredge using laser depth control 116 which
avoids the need to drain down the filter. Sand scrapings must be washed to remove dirt
before being replaced in the filter. Washing must be carried out soon after removal. In
small plants manual washing by high pressure water jet is used. In larger plants
mechanised systems consisting screens, hydrocyclones and density separators are used.
The standards aimed for cleaned sand are: ~17'1~8 silt concentration in the range 0.5-1.0 g/1
 and particulate organic concentration 0.1 g/1 or 0.1% w/w.
    Each filter needs five valves; inlet, outlet, back-filling, waste and drain. The inlet valve is
 sized to give a velocity of about 0.1 m/s for good distribution of water and not to damage
 the schmutzdecke. It can also be used to drain the top water when the filter needs cleaning.
 The back-filling valve is used to refill the filter (after scraping) by reverse flow to a water
 depth of about 250 mm to remove air entrained in the voids. The waste valve is used to
 discharge the filtrate for a period until the filter is 'ripened' after it is brought on line
 following skimming or re-sanding; filtered water is discharged to waste until chemical and
 bacteriological tests prove it to be satisfactory. In the operation of filters it is important to
 minimise fluctuations in inflow and raw water quality. The plant should be designed to
                                  7.42 Limitations and advantages of slow sand filters     347


operate at constant rate with a constant level of water above the sand surface, or rising
water level in the filter. With the latter the shallow water depth allows penetration of
sunlight, encouraging algae growth and there is always the danger of disturbing the
schmutzdecke by the incoming water. With the low filtration rate, manual control of filter
inlet and outlet will be more than adequate and cheaper. Automatic control would
however be useful for large plants. Water level in the filter can be kept constant by a level
controlled inlet butterfly valve and a constant filtration rate is maintained by a flow
controlled outlet butterfly valve.



7.41     Use of pre-treatment with slow sand filters
Slow sand filters may operate as the sole form of filtration for raw water turbidities of up
to about 10 NTU. The object of pre-treatment such as storage or pre-filtration is to
lighten the load of suspended matter on the slow sand filters and so permit longer intervals
between cleanings or a faster rate of filtration, or both. Van Dijk and Oomen ll9
recommend that if the average raw water turbidity exceeds 50 NTU for more than a few
weeks, (or is in excess of 100 NTU for a day or so), then pre-treatment is indispensable.
Pre-treatment can take the form of river bed filtration, Ranney wells, storage, plain
settlement, filtration (horizontal, pebble matrix, rapid gravity or upflow) 12~ or com-
bination of these depending on the turbidity of the raw water. If the filtrate has a
persistently low oxygen content (<3 mg/1) then aeration of the raw water will be necessary.
Pre-treatment sometimes includes chemical coagulation and flocculation without
clarification (Ivry plant near Paris) or with clarification (Orly plant near Paris) and
rapid gravity filtration. ~21 If raw water E. coli counts are in excess of about 10 000/100 ml,
the filtered water should be subjected to disinfection as marginal chlorination would be
inadequate. A summary of the effects of pre-filtration is given by Ridley, 122 who compared
three London supply w o r k s - Hanworth Road with slow filtration only, Kempton Park
with rapid gravity filters preceding slow sand filters, and Ashford Common with
microstraining preceding slow sand filters. Figures for the period 1 April-30 September
(when algal growths are usually most prominent) for the 5 years 1959-63 inclusive and the
influence of more recent changes to the pre-treatment on operating criteria are shown in
Table 7.13.
   During the period 1956-63 Kempton Park rapid gravity filters used 1.15-1.62%
washwater (as a percentage of the water filtered) while Ashford Common microstrainers
used 1.64-2.03%. The extra washwater used and the capital and running costs of pre-
filtration and ozonation are usually taken as economically justified in view of the very
considerable increase in water filtered through the slow sand filters between cleanings.



7.42     Limitations and advantages of slow sand filters
Slow sand filters tended to be ignored when new plants were being considered because of
the amount of land and labour they use and their relatively large capital cost. However,
there is still a place in water treatment for slow sand filters, providing their advantages and
limitations are carefully weighed in any particular case. They may also play a greater role
in future water treatment technologies owing to pressures for less chemical usage in
treatment.
348   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

Table 7.13 Performance of slow sand flters for London water supply (1998-99)

                                                                    Quantity of water filtered
Station and type of pre-treatment           Rate of filtration      per hectare of sand bed
currently adopted                           (m/h)                   cleaned (M1/ha) a
Hanworth Road b - no pre-treatment          (0.004-0.059) c         (315-705) c

Kempton Park; rapid gravity                 0.3 (0.132-0.152) ~     3300-4950 (1260-1600) c
pre-filtration and ozone

Ashford Common; pre-ozone, rapid            0.3 (0.132-0.137) c     4140-6900 (1000-1570) c
gravity pre-filtration and main ozone

Source: Thames Water plc, UK.
al M1 = 103 m 3. 1 ha - 104 m 2. So 1 M1/ha = 0.1 m3/m 2.
bHanworth Road installation is now closed.
CValues in brackets show the information for the summer seasons in 1959-1963; since then ozone
treatment and GAC sandwich have been introduced.



   A review of the efficiency of slow sand filters by Lambert 123 gives degrees of removal for
colour (36%), a series of organics groups (14-60%), and pesticides (e.g. 100% for
Mecoprop and 2,4-D, but zero for Atrazine, Simazine and Bentazone). Slow sand filters
do not significantly reduce the 'true colour' (see Section 6.16) of a water. They are thus
only suitable for dealing with waters of relatively low colour. What the limiting colour
should be depends upon the standards set for the final water, but generally one would say
that raw waters of colour 10-15 Hazen units would, other things being equal, be quite
suitable for slow sand filtration. With a colour of greater than 15 Hazen units, slow sand
filters might still be used, but in this case it would probably be advisable to oxidise the
colour in the feed or filtrate by ozonation (e.g. Invercannie water treatment plant,
Grampian Regional Council, Scotland where ozone is used to oxidise colour, upstream of
slow sand filters). 124 Another factor is that slow sand filters are not effective in removing
iron and manganese in solution, and being a biological process there is a marked reduction
in efficiency in the removal of contaminants at low temperatures (see Section 7.39).
   A high concentration of algae in the raw water can cause treatment difficulties due to
clogging of the filters, or if the cells die off in the filter, due to excessive respiratory
demands causing anaerobiosis and tastes. The chlorophyll-a concentration of the feed
should ideally be limited to 5 #g/1111'125 with a peak of 15 #g/1.125 Thus slow sand filters
are not the treatment of choice for highly eutrophic waters in which sudden peaks of algae
may appear in spring, summer or autumn. Methods to prevent or control algae include
pre-treatment, covering of slow sand filters and chemical treatment. Low to moderate
algal concentrations on the other hand are beneficial to the process.
    Slow sand filters are also not very suitable for the removal of any substantial amount of
finely divided inorganic suspended matter. With pre-filtration using primary filters,
however, they may function successfully for years treating a water which is intermittently
laden with fine silt.
    Removal of organics by slow sand filters is not complete (see Section 7.38) and that of
pesticides is type dependent as mentioned above. Therefore on some waters they are
                                                                  7.43 Cryptosporidium 349

supplemented by additional treatment usually ozone and granular activated carbon
(GAC) adsorbers used either upstream or downstream of slow sand filters. At Thames
Water's Ashford Common Works a 0.135 m GAC sandwich layer is incorporated within
the slow sand filters. Ozonation is carried out upstream of roughing and slow sand
filters. 116 At Ivry and Orly plants near Paris, ozone and GAC are used downstream. TM
   Apart from the above, the other stated limitations of slow sand filters often appear of
doubtful validity on closer inspection and four examples are given to illustrate this. Firstly,
it is stated that slow sand filters occupy a greater area of land than do coagulation and
rapid gravity plants. This is true so long as one ignores the question of sludge disposal, but
if adequate sludge disposal facilities are included the land required for slow sand filters
may well be no greater than that for a conventional treatment. Secondly, it is maintained
that slow sand filters are expensive in capital costs. However, when the cost of chemicals is
taken into account, slow sand filters may be cheaper in annual costs than conventional
plants. 126 Thirdly, whereas it was usual to design slow sand filters for low rates shown in
Table 7.13 for 1959-63, it has been found that with improvements to pre-treatment (e.g.
pre-ozonation, GAC, redesigned primary filters, intermediate ozone) without covering
(e.g. Ashford Common Works, Thames Water, U K ) 116 or with covering (e.g. Barmby
Works, Yorkshire Water, U K ) , 127 filtration rates have been almost doubled to about
0.3 m/h. Other techniques such as the use of replaceable non-woven synthetic fabric layer
(geotextiles) on top of sand has helped to reduce the cleaning frequency; 128 at Hardhof
plant, Zurich, a six-fold reduction in cleaning frequency is reported. 129 Fourthly, slow
sand filters are said to be labour intensive, but with modern, properly designed, slow sand
filters permitting the latest methods of mechanical cleaning, they may be no more labour
intensive than conventional treatment plants, taking into account the work involved in
sludge disposal.
   In some European countries they are used as a final polishing stage of treatment, being
preceded by as many as five or six stages of treatment including chemical coagulation,
sedimentation, 13~ ozone, GAC, softening, etc. (e.g. River-Lake plant, Loenderveen and
Wesperkarspel, Holland 112).


Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts removal
7.43 Cryptosporidium
Removal of Cryptosporidium oocysts can be achieved by any process that removes
particles down to the size of 4 lzm or smaller. However, conventional water treatment
processes in current use for drinking water supply cannot guarantee complete removal.
Since the performance of disinfectants is poor (see Sections 6.57 and 9.6) the removal of
oocysts in the upstream solid-liquid separation processes must be maximised. Well
operated and maintained conventional treatment processes which include coagulation and
flocculation, with or without clarification by dissolved air flotation (DAF) or settlement
(horizontal flow, sludge blanket, etc.) followed by granular media filtration are expected to
achieve 2-log to 3-log removal consistently. 131'132 The contribution by media filters to the
overall removal can be between 1.5 and 2 log. To maximise their removal the water must
be properly coagulated prior to clarification and filtration. Good mixing of the coagulant
in water is paramount for effective coagulation of particles and the coagulation process
should be operated at the optimum pH. A low soluble coagulant metal ion concentration
(<0.05 mg/1 as A1 or Fe) is a good indication of effective coagulation. This should be
350   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

followed by hydraulic or mechanical flocculation. The solid-liquid separation process can
be by direct media filtration, or a combination of clarification followed by media
filtration. Criteria for good clarification performance would be a turbidity of 1 NTU and
total coagulant metal ion concentration less than 1 mg/1 as Fe or 0.5 mg/1 as A1 depending
on the coagulant used. ~33 Filters should be operated at about 6 m3/h.m 2 with all filters in
service. Filtrate turbidity should be consistently less than 0.5 NTU, and ideally a filtered
water turbidity from individual filters of less than 0.1 NTU should be aimed for. TM
Filtered water turbidities <0.1 NTU and particle counts <50/ml are indicators of good
treatment for controlling Cryptosporidium. ~35 Second stage filtration such as GAC
adsorbers or manganese removal filters may provide a further barrier with removal <0.5
log but cannot be relied upon for effective removal because they are not used for residual
floc removal.
   Slow sand filters with an active schmutzdecke and at filtration rates up to 0.3 m3/h.m 2
are expected to achieve up to 5-log removal. Microfiltration and ultrafiltration can achieve
consistent removal rates better than 2-log and 4-log respectively (see Section 7.36); in some
studies higher removals (>6-log) 98 have been reported. Cryptosporidium oocysts are
resistant to even high concentrations of chlorine (see Section 9.6), but ozone when used in
doses typically applied at water treatment works is reported to produce l-log to 2-log
inactivation of oocysts. 136'137 For ozone the 'ct' value required to achieve 2-log
inactivation is about 5 mg.min/1 at 7~ and 1.7 mg.min/1 at 22~ and that to achieve 3-
log inactivation is about 8 rag.rain/1 at 7~ and 2.5 rag.rain/1 at 22~ 138 Ozone if in use
for other applications (e.g. oxidation, disinfection, etc.) would be beneficial for oocyst
inactivation, although the installation of ozone solely for oocyst inactivation is not
recommended until its effectiveness is confirmed in further studies and full scale plants.
The process is used in the USA as a treatment method for oocysts. It is important to note
that irrespective of the various degrees of removal achieved in different processes, the
critical factor is the number of oocysts remaining in the water which is a function of the
number in the raw water, and how it relates to the infectious dose.
    In the UK, the Report of the Group of Experts which met under the chairmanship of Sir
John Badenoch 136 made the following recommendations to minimise the risk of
 Cryptosporidium passing into water supplies:
(i) the operation of rapid filters should avoid sudden surges of flow which may dislodge
      retained deposits;
(ii) rapid filters should not be restarted after shutdown without backwashing;
(iii) after cleaning, slow sand filters should not be brought back into use without an
      adequate 'ripening period';
(iv) bypassing part of the water treatment process should be avoided.
It also emphasised the importance of monitoring turbidity of individual filters to enable
early detection of turbidity breakthrough in filters and questions the practice of recycling
supernatant water from clarifier sludge and filter backwash water treatment facilities to
the treatment works inlet.
   The Second Report of the Group of Experts, ~39 reiterated the earlier recommendations
and proposed that rapid changes in flow through filters should be limited to between 1.5-
5% per minute, depending on the fragility of the floc, to avoid penetration of particles
through the filter. It also accepts the fact that turbidity breakthrough still occurs when
using 'slow start' (see Section 7.27), albeit with lower turbidity values over a longer period,
                                                                                                                     7.43 Cryptosporidium                   351

but the risk of oocysts released from the filter bed still remains. The effect of initial
breakthrough with or without slow start on the filtrate can be overcome by diverting the
initial filtrate to waste, or for later use as a source of backwash water or by recycling to the
works inlet. Figure 7.21 illustrates the benefit of the first flush to waste over slow start in
reducing the initial turbidity and particle breakthrough. Standing the filter for about 15-
60 minutes (the so-called 'delayed start') following the backwash has also been shown to
reduce the initial breakthrough of turbidity. The addition of polyelectrolyte to washwater
for ripening the filter, which is practised mostly in the USA is reportedly not always
successful. 14~ Used backwash water should be treated by settlement with the aid of a
polyelectrolyte before recycling; the target quality for the supernatant from the settling
process being a turbidity of <5 NTU, suspended solids of < 10 mg/1 and total coagulant
metal ion concentration of <5 mg/1 as A1 or Fe. TM The recycle flow should be between 5-
10% of raw water flow. Similar rules should be applied to the recycle of thickener
supernatant. On the recycling of supernatant waters from clarifier sludge and filter
backwash treatment system, the Second Report suggests that the efficiency of these
facilities should be such that no more than 5% return of oocysts to the works inlet occurs
to ensure minimal effect on the final water quality. This may require additional treatment
of the supernatant such as membrane filtration, 'depth filtration' (see Sections 7.36 and

      800 -                                                                                                                                    -     1.00
                                                             Slow start                                                   Slow start
                                                             without                                                      with                 - 0.90
      700 -                                                  first flush                                                  first flush
                                                             to waste                                                     to waste
                                                                                                                                               - 0.80
      600 -
                                                                                                                                               /
                                                              Outlet valve                                                      Outlet valve   -!, 0.7 0
                                                              open                                                              open
      500 - Outlet                                       /                                          Outlet                  /                      !0 60    ~"
E           valve                                                                                   valve                  /                       m"       ~D
I,-
            starts  I~ |                                                                            starts                /                                 z
      400 - to open ~i~                         ~                                    $              to open           /                        -0.50         .~
"0
                             :',                                                     ~'~                                                       ~0.40        I-
o_ :300
                                                              ,,                                              /
               tit)                i            o" . s
                      ~       .                          ", 4+
                                  - . i. , , , ,                                                   /,,,           ...-...4+
      200


      100                              \.   /                   5.Lx,_           i           /.,'                 ,~ ~                         --,
                                                                           ~" ~11            ,~ f , , \ . j , /                 5+~"~.-_.~
                                                                                              ii                                                   I 010
                  i        ,,'i.
                          r-'i   !  I  I     I I I m
                                                   m                                     I             I I I I I I I         I0 O0
                          0 15 30 45 60 75 90 105 120                                         0       15 30 45 60 75 90 105 120
                                   Time (rain)                                                              Time (min)

            - - ~ -m- = Turbidity value
            3+, 4+, 5+ = Cumulative particle size in ~m
Fig. 7.21 Particle count and turbidity on filter start up - effect of first flush to waste (source:
Portsmouth Water plc UK).
352   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

7.37) or ozonation. The use of particle counters which are more representative of oocyst
breakthrough and sensitive to changes in filter performance than turbidity monitors on
filters, is also emphasised in the Second Report. Turbidity value does not correlate well with
particle counts, for example at a filtration works in the USA a 15% increase in flow through
filters due to a filter being taken out of service for washing showed a turbidity increase from
0.03 to 0.05 NTU whereas particle count increased from 5 to 25 particles/ml. 141
   The importance of coagulation followed by solid-liquid separation as an effective
barrier against Cryptosporidium is emphasised in the Third Report of the Group of
Experts under the chairmanship of Professor Ian Bouchier. ~42 The report supports the
recommendations made in the previous reports and recommends that a risk assessment is
carried out for each source, and water treatment and monitoring requirements should be
reviewed against the level of risk. It makes the following additional recommendations on
water treatment and monitoring:


Treatment
(i)   Works should be designed to treat typical worst raw water quality with respect to
      colour and turbidity and should not be operated under stress, nor in particular
      outside its design capacity. (It is therefore important to establish operating rules for a
      works based on its treatment limitations with respect to capacity and raw water
      quality.)
(ii) Coagulation and flocculation processes should be regularly optimised, particularly
      when water quality changes.
(iii) Works should be operated to minimise turbidity, colour and coagulant metal ion
      concentration in final water all the time.
(iv) If the works are subjected to overloading or bypassing due to emergencies, strict
      monitoring regimen should be initiated to ensure turbidity increases are minimised.
(v) For high risk sites, if slow start is ineffective, first flush (initial filtrate) should be run
      to waste or reused as washwater or recycled to the works inlet.
(vi) Only dedicated washwater mains should be used to carry the returned washwater
      flow.
(vii) Filters should be operated and maintained under optimum conditions with respect to
      quality, media depth and effectiveness of backwashing.


Monitoring
(viii) Process monitoring systems should be appropriate to the level of risk at each source
       and, for works treating high risk sources, monitoring should include continuous
       measurement of turbidity on each filter outlet and on the final water using
       instruments with a sensitivity better than 0.1 NTU. The use of particle count
       monitors to supplement turbidity monitors is encouraged.
(ix) For individual treatment works, the value and duration that constitute a significant
       deviation in turbidity of final water should be defined, and monitored with alarms
       initiated outside the defined values. The turbidity should lead to action which
       might include shut down of filter(s) or the source, based on the level of risk of the
       source.
                                                    7.45 Types and quantities of sludges     353


(x)    For sources with high risk, consideration be given to continuous sampling for
       Cryptosporidium with analysis times related to turbidity results (i.e. events of high
       turbidity), or sampling initiated by turbidity events.


7.44     Giardia cysts removal
Giardia cysts being larger organisms (8-12 #m) than Cryptosporidium oocysts (4-6 #m)
are easier to remove by solids-liquid separation processes than Cryptosporidium. 143 In
most cases Giardia removal is about l-log to 2-log better than the corresponding value for
Cryptosporidium removal. Because of their larger size they can be better correlated to
turbidity than Cryptosporidium oocysts.
   Giardia cysts are less resistant to disinfection than Cryptosporidium oocysts, though
chlorine is not very effective, a 'ct' value of 100 mg.min/1 (see Section 9.5) being required
for 2-log inactivation at pH 7 and 5~ improving to about 10 mg.min/1 at 25~ 144 Using
ozone, the corresponding values for 2-log inactivation at pH 7 are 0.53 mg/1.min at 5~
and 0.17 mg.min/1 at 25~ 145


Disposal of sludge from treatment works
7.45 Types and quantities of sludges
Sludges may be classified according to the type of water treatment process adopted.
   Non-chemical sludges arise from microstrainers, clarifiers for pre-settlement unaided by
chemicals, membrane filters except the effluent from chemical cleaning of membranes, and
from slow sand filters and associated roughing filters which are used for the treatment of
low turbidity waters, usually stored waters. These sludges are for the most part fairly
innocuous and in some countries it may still be permissible to discharge them to a
watercourse or water body without treatment; an exception occurs when the raw water has
high populations of algae when treatment such as the use of drying beds may be required.
   Coagulant sludges derive from treatment plants using coagulation, whether by means of
aluminium or iron salts. These are the most difficult to treat for disposal because of the
relatively large volumes involved and the difficulties of dewatering due to their gelatinous
nature. They are dealt with in detail below.
   Softening sludges are generated from softening by lime or lime-soda treatment, and the
sludges, being of granular consistency, are comparatively easy to dewater.

Quantities
The quantities of dry solids in sludges produced in a treatment works employing
coagulation, flocculation, clarification and filtration are a function of raw water quality and
the chemical treatment applied. They are made up of coagulant hydroxide, suspended solids,
precipitated colour, algae, iron, manganese and other chemicals contributing to solids, such
as powdered activated carbon (PAC), impurities in lime and polyelectrolyte. Dry solids
produced ahead of clarifiers or filters (in direct filtration) can be calculated as follows:
         Sludge dry solids (mg/1) = X + S + H + C + Fe + Mn + P + L + Y

where X - c o a g u l a n t hydroxide (mg/1) = f x coagulant dose (mg/1 as A1 or Fe); f = 2.9 for
A1 and 1.9 for Fe.
354       Storage, clarification and filtration of water

S - suspended solids (mg/1); when suspended solids values are not available it can be
approximated to 2  turbidity (NTU)
H - 0 . 2  colour Hazen
C - 0.2  chlorophyll 'a' in #g/1
F e - 1.9  iron in water in mg/1 as Fe
M n - 1.6  manganese in water in mg/1 as Mn
P - PAC dose (mg/1)
L - lime dose in mg/1 as pure lime  ( 1 _ 1) where w is the purity of lime expressed as a
fraction
Y - polyelectrolyte dose (mg/1)
   In a well-operated treatment works using clarification and filtration all but about 5 mg/1
of the calculated dry solids will be removed in the clarifiers.
   When softening follows clarification, the sludge dry solids produced in the softener can
be calculated as follows (see Sections 8.2-8.4 for softening).
   For lime softening to remove carbonate hardness:
            Sludge dry solids (mg/1) = 2CaCH + 2.54MgCH + CO2 + L = S(1)
where CaCH- calcium carbonate hardness removed as CaCO3 (mg/1)
M g C H - magnesium carbonate hardness removed as CaCO3 (mg/1)
C 0 2 - carbon dioxide removed as CaCO3 (mg/1)
L - as above
   For lime-soda softening to remove both carbonate and non-carbonate hardness:
            Sludge dry solids (mg/1) = S(1)+ 2CaNCH + 2.54MgNCH
where CaNCH- calcium non-carbonate hardness removed as CaCO3 (mg/l)
M g N C H - magnesium non-carbonate hardness removed as CaCO3 (mg/1)
  For caustic soda softening to remove carbonate hardness:
            Sludge dry solids (mg/1) = CaCH + 0.54MgCH = S(c)
For caustic soda softening to remove both carbonate and non-carbonate hardness:
            Sludge dry solids (mg/1) = S ( c ) + CaNCH + 0.54MgNCH
When softening and clarification processes are carried out together then the clarifier and
softener dry solids should be combined.
   Where coagulants are used, the water is usually filtered by rapid gravity or pressure
filters. The coagulated water may pass directly to the filters, in which case there is only the
sludge content of the filter backwash water to deal with, or there may be a clarification
stage including the use of sedimentation or flotation tanks before filtration: the sludge
drawn off from these tanks must be considered as well. Where there is no clarification
before filtration (i.e. direct filtration with coagulation), the backwash water volume can
range from 1 to 5 % of plant throughput, with a quoted average of 3 %. With clarification,
a filter will use a washwater volume equivalent to 289to 3 times the media bed volume per
wash, which is about 1-2.5% of works throughput depending on the filter wash frequency.
The actual values are dependent upon raw water quality, the dosage of coagulants and
other chemicals used, and frequency of filter washing. Filter backwash water usually
contains 0.01-0.10% w/v* dry solids with an average of 0.03% w/v and up to 0.2% w/v
      .      .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .     .   .   .   .



*x% w/v is percent weight per volume - x grammes of dry solids/100 ml of liquid containing the
solids either in soluble or insoluble form.
                                                             7.46 Methods of disposal 355


for direct filtration with coagulation. Sludge withdrawn from clarifiers may amount to
about 1.5 to 2.5% of works throughput and contains 0.1-1.0% w/v solids with an average
of 0.3% w/v. Dissolved air flotation tanks employing mechanical float removal methods
will produce sludge flows of the order of 0.5-1% of works throughput, with dry solids
concentrations ranging from 2 to 3% w/v. Hydraulic float removal methods will increase
the sludge quantity to about 1-2% of works throughput with solids concentrations of less
than 0.5% w/v and usually about 0.1% w/v. 146 For softeners the quantity discharged is
usually in the range 0.5-2% of works throughput, although in some plants it can be as
high as 5%, whilst the sludge is withdrawn at concentrations between 5 and 10% w/v.
About 85-95% w/w of the solids is calcium carbonate depending on whether the softener
is used for combined clarification and softening or for softening only.
   For pre-settlement tanks and clarifiers which have to treat waters with heavy silt loads
of over 1000 mg/1, the sludge volume removed can range from 5 to 10% of works
throughput and may even reach as high as 30%. The concentration of such sludges can
range from 2% to 5% w/v solids with a maximum of 10% w/v. These are exceptional cases
in which special removal methods are necessary, but it is as well to be aware that they can
occur with some raw waters, particularly in overseas countries. At the 1365 M1/day Karkh
water treatment works treating river Tigris water for Baghdad, when the raw water
suspended solids loading was 30 000 mg/1, pre-settlement tank desludging accounted for
28% of works throughput and the concentration of the sludge was 10% w/v; the
downstream clarifiers accounted for a further 7.5% of throughput at 2.5% w/v
concentration. Losses due to filter backwashing remained below 1.5% of throughput.
Total water losses were therefore 37% of works throughput.
   Membrane filtration plants have a sludge stream and a chemical waste stream. The
former is made up of the blow-down and used backwash water and has a composition
similar to the feed, unless chemicals such as PAC and coagulants are used in the treatment
of the feed. Chlorine may be present if used in the backwash water. The quantity varies
between 2-15% of throughput depending on the feed water turbidity, and the suspended
solids concentration is of the order of 250 mg/1, similar to that in rapid gravity filter used
washwater. The quantity of chemical cleaning waste is a function of the cleaning frequency
(which is usually once every few weeks). It is primarily made up of the chemicals used in
cleaning and the rinse water.
   In slow sand filter installations, the primary filter used washwater quantities and solids
concentrations are similar to those of direct filtration plants. The sand washing plant
produces up to 10 m 3 or possibly even 20 m 3 of water/m 3 sand, and contains solids
primarily consisting of organic debris.



7.46     Methods of disposal
In a well operated clarification and filtration plant using a coagulant, a high proportion of
the suspended matter would be removed in the clarifiers, leaving about 2-5 mg/1 of
suspended solids to be removed by the filters. Therefore used filter washwater is very dilute
compared to clarifier sludge and it is preferable to dispose used washwater separately, or
keep the two waste streams segregated until the used washwater has undergone settlement
to concentrate its sludge solids. There are instances, however, where used washwater and
clarifier sludge are combined and treated.
356   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

   The simplest method of disposing filter washwater is to recycle it with the solids it
contains to the treatment process at the works inlet, where it is mixed with raw water. The
main benefit is that solids are subsequently removed in the coagulation and clarification
process, and can be withdrawn as clarifier sludge at a steady rate and consistent solids
concentration. Recycling also helps to maximise washwater recovery. Filter washwater is
however generated intermittently in relatively large amounts over short periods, with the
solids concentrations declining continually until it is almost clear. Averaged over a day the
proportion of filter washwater used is usually within the range 1-2% of the works
throughput and contains up to about 10% of the solids removed in the treatment plant.
Uncontrolled return of used washwater as shock loads to the main treatment process may
adversely effect the coagulation and downstream clarification processes. It should
therefore be added uniformly at a steady flow of up to 5% of the works inflow, from a
flow balancing tank.
   Recycling can return undesirable material (which had already been removed) to the
plant. The contaminants of primary concern are micro-animals (e.g. rotifers, cyclopoids,
copepods, chironomid midge larvae and nematode worms) and protozoan organisms such as
Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts. If the numbers of these organisms in the raw
water are high, then recycling of washwater (which would contain a large number removed
in the filter) would exacerbate the problems. Holding tanks used for washwater can also
provide breeding grounds for some of the organisms, and the used washwater returns can
therefore potentially carry them in increased numbers to the treatment process. This
seeding can, if it occurs, result in infestation of clarifiers and filters, increasing the risk of
passing them to the treated water.
   Treatment of the used washwater by settlement will reduce the risk of recycling micro-
organisms. With 80% settlement efficiency, the increased loading of Giardia cysts and
Cryptosporidium oocysts to the plant through recycling, will be only about 1.2 times the
source loading; settlement will also help to reduce manganese, aluminium and iron present
as particulates and THM precursor concentrations. 147 Settlement is usually preceded by a
trap to remove any filter media carried over in used washwater. The settlement process is
aided by a small dose of polyelectrolyte (0.02-0.2 mg/1 of polyacrylamide) and can be by
batch or continuous flow sedimentation. Batch tanks take the shape of hopper bottomed
clarifiers (see Section 7.16) or horizontal flow sedimentation tanks (see Section 7.14) and
usually consist of three or more tanks each sized for at least one filter wash and arranged
to operate in rotation with one filling, one settling and one being emptied. Supernatant
will be decanted using a floating arm drawoff arrangement, with sludge drawn-off from
the bottom. Continuous flow sedimentation will be in lamella plate settlers (See Section
7.17). The settlement process will concentrate the solids to 0.3-1% w/v. The supernatant
recovered will have a turbidity usually of less than 10 NTU and can be either discharged to
a water course or returned to the works inlet at less than 5% of the works raw water flow.
    The risk of returning Cryptosporidium or Giardia to the works can be further reduced by
 treating the supernatant by either membrane (see Section 7.36) or depth filtration (see
 Section 7.37) or ozonation (see Section 7.43). In works where pre-ozonation is practised,
 the high ozone dose required to inactivate Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts can
 be achieved by injecting a proportion of ozone required for main stream ozonation into
 the supernatant return. An allowance should be made in the applied dose for the ozone
 demand of the supernatant. The minimum 'ct' value required is typically 15 mg.min/1 with
 about 2-3 minutes contact time.
                                                  7.47 Sludge thickening and disposal 357

   The membrane filter sludge stream can be treated in a manner similar to rapid gravity
filter washwater treatment. The chemical cleaning wastes from membrane plants can be
either treated on site or removed for off-site disposal, depending on the quantity. On-site
treatment usually consists of flow balancing followed by pH correction and oxidant
residual removal (e.g. sodium bisulphite dosing to remove residual chlorine).


7.47 Sludge thickening and disposal
Clarifier sludge and settled sludge from used filter washwater settlement tanks are mixed
and concentrated in a continuous flow thickener where the residence time of the
supernatant and the sludge can be varied independently of each other. The thickeners must
be preceded by flow balancing tanks to contain and mix intermittent sludge discharges,
and feed the thickeners at a consistent concentration and uniform rate. In applications
where used washwater (without settlement) is mixed with clarifier sludge, the sizing of the
flow balancing tanks becomes critical because of the large surges of dilute, used
washwater. The sludge concentration achieved in the thickener is independent of the feed
concentration. However, the greater the feed volume, the larger the thickener will be.
There are several thickener designs in use, most are of the settlement type developed for
industrial applications which uses heavy duty scrapers with a picket-fence attachment. A
design developed in UK by the Water Research Centre ~48 specifically for waterworks
sludge thickening applications, consists of a cylindrical tank of water depth 2-3.5 m with a
shallow sloping floor (1 in 20). Sludge is introduced at the central feed well and the
supernatant overflows a peripheral weir. The sludge is thickened by the action of a
specially designed rake which also moves the thickened sludge to a central hopper, of
included angle 60 ~ for intermittent discharge under hydrostatic head. 149
   With the aid of polyelectrolytes, coagulant sludges can be thickened to concentrations
from 3 to 6% w/v solids. The polyelectrolyte dose can be in the range 0.1-1 g/kg of dry
solids. The supernatant overflow will have a turbidity less than about 10 NTU. The
hydraulic loading is usually about 1.5 m3/h.m 2 and the dry solids loading is about 4 kg/
h.m 2. Softener sludge is rarely thickened because it concentrates well in the clarifiers. If
necessary it can be further thickened to 20-30% w/w or more at a dry solids loading rate
of about 8 kg/h.m 2. To prevent the softener sludge becoming too thick underflow is
sometimes recycled to the feed. Dissolved air flotation (see Section 7.18) is sometimes used
in waterworks sludge thickening. 15~The hydraulic loading rate is in the range 4-5 m3/h.m 2
and the solids loading rate is about 5 kg/h.m 2. The sludge is thickened to about 4% w/v.
For optimum thickener performance polyelectrolyte dosing is required and the dose
should be applied proportional to the feed solids concentration and flow. It should be well
mixed using an in-line static mixer or similar.
   Each thickener should have a dedicated feed pump of the progressive cavity type.
Desludging can be initiated by sludge blanket level and terminated after a pre-set time, or
when the solids concentration in the discharge measured in the outlet pipe falls to a pre-set
value. In a well-operated thickener the supernatant is normally of an acceptable chemical
and physical quality for recycling to the treatment process, but the potential risk of micro-
organism and micro-animal return in clarifier sludges is far greater than in the case of
recycling used washwater. Treatment for micro-organism removal similar to that for the
supernatant from used washwater settling tanks will therefore be required. Chemical
quality problems can also arise in thickeners when sludges containing oxides of iron and
358   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

manganese and natural organic matter are allowed to age. Anaerobic conditions can then
develop and release iron, manganese, colour and organics that would impart taste and
odour into the supernatant, which if recycled, may consequently have an adverse effect on
the treatment plant performance. Recycling can also lead to accumulation of toxic
monomer (derived from polyelectrolytes used in thickening) in the treatment process,
thereby affecting the treated water. This should be calculated by mass balance on the
assumption that the monomer is fully dissolved and will be present in water.
   Disposal of thickened sludge is always a problem. Discharging sludge back to a river
from which the raw water has been abstracted is, of course, the simplest and most
economical disposal method, but the practice is only possible where good dilution is
available and there are no adverse environmental consequences. In some cases it is possible
to discharge unthickened waterworks sludge to the public sewer, provided the proportion
of sludge solids is less than 10% of the sewage sludge solids and adequate velocity
(> 0.75 m/s) is maintained in the sewers at all times to prevent silting in pipes. Thickened
sludge may be piped or tankered to a sewage works. Coagulant sludges may aid primary
sedimentation, thus reducing the solids load to the subsequent biological stages and help
in the removal of phosphorous. Thickened sludge may also be mixed with digested sludge
for disposal. Iron sludges can prevent hydrogen sulphide gas formation and therefore
corrosion of concrete sewers. 151


7.48 Sludge dewatering
Dewatering of coagulant sludges is difficult because of their gelatinous nature. Materials
such as lime, fly ash or diatomaceous earth gives body to the sludge and ease dewatering,
but the quantity of dry solids is increased by 50-100% by weight. The dewaterability of
softener sludge depends on the Ca:Mg ratio of the sludge; those with a Ca:Mg ratio less
than 2:1 will be difficult to dewater while those with a Ca:Mg ratio greater than 5:1
dewater readily.
   Disposal of thickened sludge by lagooning or discharging to drying beds is still widely
used in some parts of the world where land is cheap and abundant. Lagoons are shallow
structures (1.0-1.5 m deep) excavated from, or formed by, impoundment with earth
embankments on porous ground above the water table. In the tropics they may be about
2.5 m deep. Once full, they are left to dry. The dried sludge is removed for disposal and the
lagoons are returned to service for another fill. A complete installation should be provided
with a large number of small lagoons, some being filled, some rested for drying and some
being emptied. Dewatering is by percolation (although with coagulation sludges the base
soon becomes impervious), settlement and decanting, and finally evaporation. The
structure is provided with weir boards at several points to allow decanting of the
supernatant and rainfall. In cold countries some dewatering through freezing and thawing
can be accomplished, but it is unlikely that more than one application can be dewatered in
this manner. In lagooning, sludge is usually placed in layers in several lagoons and allowed
to dry before the next layer is placed. This is continued until the total depth is utilised. The
coagulant sludges generally consolidate to 10-15% w/w dry solids* and softener sludge to
greater than 50% w/w dry solids. The dried sludge is removed by using draglines or front-
end loaders.

*x% w/w dry solids is x percent weight per weight - x g of dry solids/lO0 g of wet solids (sludge).
                                                                7.48 Sludge dewatering 359

   Drying beds, unlike lagoons, have a permeable base of 150 to 250 mm of sand (effective
size of 0.3-0.75 ram, uniformity coefficient less than 4), supported by about 300 mm of
graded gravel laid over an underdrainage system of vitrified clay or plastic pipes laid with
open joints and covered with coarser gravel. As an alternative porous concrete floors are
sometimes used. Dewatering in drying beds is by drainage and evaporation, with the former
accounting for about 40-50% of the dewatering. The average rate of evaporation of wet
sludge is about 80% of that for free water. Rainfall delays the drying process, as only about
60% of the rainfall is lost by drainage, whereas rainfall during the later stages of drying
when the bed is cracked, has little effect on the drying time. Sludge is usually placed to a
depth of about 200-300 mm and coagulant sludges are removed at about 15-25% w/w dry
solids. Drying beds are not extensively used for softener sludges because sludge penetrates
the sand bed during drainage. This could be overcome by polyelectrolyte conditioning and
sludge is dried to over 50% w/w solids. In drying beds, layering is not normally practised as
it will retard the dewatering by drainage. The operating and emptying of drying beds is
similar to those of lagoon. For lagooning and drying beds to succeed as dewatering
processes the net evaporation rate must exceed rainfall for a considerable part of the year. In
sizing an allowance should therefore be made for storage of sludge during winter and wet
months when drying is minimal. The ability of a sludge to dewater by gravity varies a great
deal and is very much dependent upon the characteristics of the individual sludge.
Aluminium coagulant sludges usually drain more slowly than do iron coagulant sludges,
although it has been suggested that the rate of draining for aluminium coagulant sludges can
be increased by 50% or more by using a conditioning agent. 152
   Dewatering of sludge by plate pressing is becoming increasingly used for polymer
thickened clarification sludges. In waterworks sludge dewatering, the recessed plate design
is commonly used (the other being the plate-and-frame type). A press contains a set of a
horizontal stack of rectangular or square plates covered with a filter cloth to provide a
series of chambers clamped between two fixed end plates. The plates are suspended either
from an overhead I-beam or on two side bars (see Plate 20). Plates are fabricated in steel,
ductile iron or polypropylene, and cloths are of nylon, polypropylene or polyester fabric.
Sludge is admitted from one or both ends through a central feed orifice in each plate. The
cloth is secured centrally at the feed orifice by a sewn neck. Filtrate is collected through
peripheral drainage ports. Initially the press is closed and the sludge is pumped using
positive displacement pumps to fill the chambers. The separation of liquid and solids takes
place in each chamber, with the solids being retained on the cloth. The filtrate passes
through the cloth and emerges from the drainage ports. The filtrate flow rate is at its
maximum at the start, remaining reasonably constant until the pressure begins to build up
with the gradual formation of the cake. When the pumping pressure reaches the operation
value the filtration rate begins to decline. The filtration time can vary from 60 to 90
minutes. There is then a period of constant pressure filtration (which can last several
hours) with a continual decline in filtration rate which eventually ceases when the
chambers are full of dry cake. The pump is then stopped, the pressure is released, the press
ends are unclamped and the plates are separated from one end, one at a time, .to release the
cake. The presses are normally operated at pressures from about 7 to 8 bar or sometimes
from 14 to 16 bar. For coagulant sludges a 25 mm cake thickness is used; thicker cakes (up
to 35 mm) are feasible, but at the expense of increased filtration time.
   Recessed plate presses can give a cake of 20-30% w/w dry solids. The volumetric
capacity of a press is determined by the chamber depth (25-35 mm), plate dimensions, (0.5
360   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

x 0.5 m up to 2 x 2 m) and the number of chambers (up to about 160). For example the
capacity of a 30 mm deep, 150 chamber, 2 x 2 m plate press is 14.25 m 3 which is equal to
the volume of the cake. If the sludge is to be dewatered to 20% w/w dry solids, then the
weight of solids per pressing is about 3.25 t.* A drawback with the recessed plate press is
that the filtration time can be up to 10 hours or even longer and the cycle time which
includes downtime for filling, cake drop and cloth washing, can be 12 hours or longer.
This drawback is overcome in the membrane plate press where one of the recessed plates in
each chamber is replaced by an inflatable rubber or polypropylene ribbed membrane
moulded round a steel insert plate, over which the filter cloth is laid. Filtration is carried
out as in the recessed plate design at about 7-8 bar. The pump is then stopped, the
membrane is inflated using compressed air or water and the remaining water in the sludge
is squeezed out at about 15 bar. The cake thickness is reduced from say 32 mm to about
15 mm. These presses produce thinner and dryer cakes in a much shorter time. Cake-dry
solids for coagulant sludges range from 25 to 45% w/w and those for softener sludges are
usually greater than 60% w/w. The filtration and compression time can be about 2 hours
(made up of 90 and 30 minutes, respectively) and the total cycle time is about 4 hours, thus
giving six pressings a day, compared to two for the recessed plate press. In the example for
the recessed plate press, the volume of cake after compression to 15 mm is 7.13 m 3. If the
sludge is dewatered to 30% w/w dry solids, then weight of solids per pressing is 2.6 t. The
sludge processed per day by similar recessed and membrane plate presses will therefore be
6.5 and 15.6 t dry solids, respectively. In the Johore River water treatment works serving
Singapore there are six membrane plate presses, each with 2 m x 2 m plates and 30 mm
deep, with 134 chambers. The cake is compressed to 20 mm. The raw water is river derived
and contains a high proportion of silt and therefore the sludge can be dewatered to 50%
w/w dry solids. Press filling/filtration and compression times are 85 and 45 minutes,
respectively. Total cycle time is 2.75 hours. Each press has a capacity of 6 t dry solids per
pressing. The press feed pumps are usually piston ram, hydraulic diaphragm or progressive
cavity type. In some application progressive cavity pumps are used only to fill the press.
Polyelectrolyte is not always added to the press feed; sometimes polyelectrolyte
conditioning is limited to thickening only. Filter pressing is a batch process. All
operations in a cycle can be fully automated. The filtrate produced from a press initially
contains about 100 mg/1 suspended solids reducing to less than 10 mg/1 as filtration
proceeds. The overall solids capture is better than 98% (99-99.5%). The filter cake is
usually discharged into a hopper located underneath the press and removed by screw
conveyors for disposal.
    Centrifuging of sludge has always had a place in the UK for the dewatering of softening
sludges and, in recent years, has also been used successfully for coagulant sludges.
 Centrifuges of several designs are available. The solid bowl decanter type, also known as
the scroll centrifuge is widely used on waterworks sludge. The bowl is a cylinder on a
 horizontal axis with a conveying conical section at one end, called the beach, and an
inward facing flange or adjustable weir at the opposite end. A helical screw conveyor
 (scroll) is mounted coaxially inside the bowl with a very small radial clearance. The feed
 sludge is introduced into the revolving bowl of the centrifuge through a feed tube at the
 axis of rotation. The centrifugal action distributes the feed around the periphery of the

*1 t of wet sludge occupies (1-0.6f) m 3 wherefis the fraction of dry solids by weight in the sludge. It
is assumed that dry solids in waterworks sludge has a specific gravity of about 2.5.
                                                  7.49 Resources recovery from sludge 361

bowl where sedimentation of solids takes place. The settled solids are continuously
conveyed along the inside of the bowl, usually counter-current to the feed (the inlet is at
the tapered end as opposed to co-current design where the inlet is at the cylindrical end), to
the discharge end where the tapered reduction in the bowl diameter causes the solids to
emerge clear of the water level. Further dewatering takes place during the movement of
solids over this tapered section. The centrate builds up in the bowl and overflows the
adjustable weir at the opposite end of the bowl.
   The parameters that affect performance efficiency are bowl speed, scroll differential
speed, pond depth, sludge feed rate and polyelectrolyte dose. To increase cake dryness,
bowl speed and feed rate should be increased and scroll differential speed, pond depth and
polyelectrolyte dose should be decreased. To increase solids recovery, bowl speed, pond
depth and polyelectrolyte dose should be increased and scroll differential speed and feed
rate should be decreased. Centrifuges are typically operated at about 1800-3500 rpm to
give a centrifugal force at the wall of the bowl of about 1500-2000g. The speed differential
between the bowl and the scroll is in the range 2-40 rpm but, usually about 10 rpm. Unlike
filter pressing, centrifuging is a continuous process. Its performance on coagulant sludges
depends to a considerable degree on polyelectrolyte conditioning of the sludge, and
polyelectrolyte usage is high and usually in the range 2-6 kg/t of dry solids. 153 The feed to
the centrifuges should be maintained at <3% w/v to ensure good mixing of polyelectrolyte
with the solids. Coagulant sludges can be dewatered to about 15-25% w/w depending on
the nature of the raw water and softening sludges to about 40-50% w/w. Overall solids
recovery is normally better than 95% (98-99%). Centrate (i.e. the effluent) water quality
from a centrifuge is usually poor with a suspended solids concentration in the range 300-
1000 mg/1. It may be spread on land or discharged to a sewage treatment works. High
demand for energy (about 0.05 kWh/kg dry solids) is a disadvantage of the centrifuging
process.
   Freezing and thawing have also provided an effective method of dewatering clarification
sludges. Natural freezing is more appropriate to countries with more severe winter
conditions than in UK. There are a few plants where a mechanical freeze-thaw method is
used for dewatering, 154 the oldest being at the Daer water treatment plant in Scotland.
   Belt presses, where pressure is applied between moving endless belts, are being used
successfully for coagulant sludge dewatering in limited numbers in USA 155 and France.
They are very dependent on the polyelectrolyte dosing and the solids content obtained
varies from 15 to 25% w/w. Vacuum drum filters are successfully used for dewatering
softener sludges. With filter loadings in the range 300-450 kg dry solids/h.m 2, cake solids
up to 65% w/w have been achieved. 156 Research will certainly continue on sludge
dewatering because of the need in many countries to comply with increasingly stringent
conditions for disposal.


7.49    Resources recovery from sludge
Economic and regulatory constraints, and environmental issues are driving water
treatment plant operators to examine alternative disposal methods and in particular,
resources recovery. 157 The uses of coagulant sludges include the manufacture of bricks 158
and cast iron 154 and, as an additive in the manufacture of cement, ~59'16~ also in the
elimination of phosphorous in sewage treatment and agricultural use. 161 Coagulant
sludges when used as soil conditioners are known to adversely affect plant growth due to
362   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

the ability of aluminium and iron to fix phosphorous in the soil making it unavailable to
plants. Coagulant sludges can be used in eutrophied lakes to fix phosphorus to minimise
algal blooms.
   Softening sludge cake which has a high purity calcium carbonate with little or no
magnesium and is free from coagulant and suspended solids, is sold for agricultural use or
to industry for products such as cosmetics. Such a pure calcium carbonate sludge is only
likely to result from the softening of well water derived from a chalk aquifer.
   The recovery of aluminium sulphate from sludge has received considerable attention in
the past because it appeared to offer partial reuse of the coagulant and also reduce the
volume of sludge to be handled. In theory every 1 g of aluminium hydroxide in the sludge
could be recovered as 2.2 g of aluminium sulphate by treating the sludge with 1.9 g
sulphuric acid at about pH 2. In practice the amount of acid can be much greater if other
acid-soluble material is present in the sludge. Typically recovery rates greater than 75%
are feasible. 162 The recovered aluminium sulphate is usually mixed with the commercial
product before reuse in the water treatment process. Due to concerns over the possible
accumulation of metals and other impurities such as organic material, the practice lost
favour and has been discontinued in many installations. It is likely to be economical only
when the cost of the sulphuric acid is lower than that of purchasing aluminium sulphate.
There are also benefits from sludge volume reduction and improved dewatering
characteristics of acidified sludge.
   Lime recovery from softening sludges by recalcination is economically viable since the
softening process causes calcium hardness to precipitate as calcium carbonate (see Section
8.3). Generally more lime is produced than is added for treatment. Recalcination is carried
out in a furnace at about 900-1000~ The available lime in the recalcined product may be
only about 60-75% depending on the inerts present, such as magnesium, iron, silica and
other compounds. Carbon dioxide which is a by-product is available for use in the
recarbonation and pH correction of water on the plant.


References
  1. Sykes G. and Skinner F. A. (eds). Microbial Aspects of Pollution. Academic Press,
     London, 1971, p. 160.
  2. Kay D. and Hanbury R. Recreational Water Quality Management, Vol. 2, Ellis
     Horwood, Chichester, 1993.
  3. Young E. F., Wallingford F. E. and Smith A. J. E. Raw Water Storage. JSWTE,
     21(2), 1972, pp. 127-152.
  4. DoE. First Annual Report of the Steering Committee on Water Quality. Circular
     No.22/72, 1971.
  5. DoE. Second Biennial Report: February 1977-February 1979, 1979.
  6. DoE. UK Water Research Centre, Bankside Storage and Infiltration Systems. Report
     to the Department of the Environment, 1993.
  7. Ward R. C. and Loftis J. C. Monitoring Systems for Water Quality. Water Resources
     Bulletin 19, 1989, pp. 101-118.
  8. Palmer D. River Water Quality Monitoring Equipment Annual Handbook. CIWEM,
     1993.
  9. Campbell A. T. et al. Identification of Odour Problems in the R. Dee. JIWEM, 8(1),
     1994, pp. 52-58.
                                                                         References   363

10. Harman M. M. I. and Baldwin I. G. Intake Protection Systems. LR 45-M, WRc,
     1988.
11. Fowlis I. A. On-line Analysis for Trace Levels of Phenolic Compounds. Proc.
     Brighton Crop Protection Conference, 1996, pp. 999-1006.
12. OECD, Eutrophication of Waters: Monitoring, Assessment and Control. Paris, 1982.
13. Moss B. Ecology of Freshwaters. Blackwell Scientific, Oxford, 1988.
14. Lund J. W. G., Mackereth F. J. H. and Mortimer C. H. Phil Trans Roy Soc, B246,
     1963, p. 260.
15,' Burman N. P. Proc SWTE 14, 1965, p. 125.
16. Symons J. M. Quality Control in Reservoirs, A Committee Report, JA WWA, 63(9),
     1971, pp. 597-604.
17. Pastorok R. A. Review of Aeration/Circulation for Lake Management in Restoration
     of Lakes and Inland Waters. Proc International Conference, Portland, Maine, 1980.
18. Windle Taylor E., Reports on the Bacteriological and Biological Examination of the
     London Waters, Metropolitan Water Board, 1961-1968.
19. Henderson-Sellers B. Engineers Limnology, Pitman Advanced Publishing Program,
     Pitman, London, 1984.
20. Ridley J. E., Cooley P. and Steel J. A. P. Control of Thermal Stratification in Thames
     Valley Reservoirs. JSWTE, 15, 1966, p. 225.
21. Davis J. M. Destratification of Reservoirs, A Design Approach. Water Services,
     August 1980, pp. 457-504.
22. Lorenzen M. and Fast A. A Guide to Aeration/Circulation Techniques for Lake
     Management. EPA-600/3-77-004.
23. Speece R.E. Lateral Thinking Solves Stratification Problems. Water Quality
     International, 3, 1994.
24. Steel J. A. P. 1975 Management of Thames Valley Reservoirs, in: Effects of Storage
     on Water Quality, WRc, 1975.
25. Toms I. P., 1981 Reservoir Management. Proc Water Industry '81, CEP Consultants,
     London, 1981.
26. Camp T. R. Sedimentation and the Design of Settling Tanks. Trans ASCE, III, 1946,
    pp. 895-936.
27. Camp T. R. Sedimentation and the Design of Settling Tanks. Trans ASCE, III, 1946,
    p. 913.
28. McLaughlin R. T. The Settling Properties of Suspensions. JASCE, HY12, Paper
    2311, December 1959.
29. Kawamura S. Integrated Design of Water Treatment Facilities. John Wiley, New
    York, 1991.
30. Camp T. R. and Stein P. C. Velocity Gradients and Internal Work in Fluid Motion.
    J. Boston Soc Civil Eng, 30, 1943, p. 219.
31. Chow V. T. Open Channel Hydraulics. McGraw Hill, New York, 1959.
32. Vigneswaran S. et al. Trends in Water Treatment Technologies. Environmental
     Sanitation Reviews No. 23/24, Asian Institute of Technology, Bangkok, 1987.
33. Fair G. M. et al. Water and Wastewater Engineering, Vol. 1. John Wiley, New York,
     1968.
34. Schulz C. R. and Okun D. A. Surface Water Treatment for Developing Countries.
    John Wiley, New York, 1968.
364   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

35. Skeat W. O. (ed.). Manual of British Water Eng&eering Practice, Vol. III, 4th edn. W.
    Heifer & Sons, Cambridge, 1969, p. 204.
36. Amirtharajah A. (ed.). Mixing in Coagulation and Flocculation. AWWA, 1991, p. 385.
37. Fawcett N. S. J. and Sidall R. A Comparison of Gate and Turbine Impellers for
    Flocculation. Proc IChemE Joint Subject Group Meeting on Mixing in the Water
    Industry, London, Oct. 1992.
38. Packham R. F. The Theory of Coagulation Process. (1) The Stability of Colloids. (2)
    Coagulation as a Water Treatment Process. JSWTE, 11(1), 1962, pp. 50 and 106, and
    12(1), 1963, p. 15.
39. Amirtharajah A. Design of Rapid Mix Units, in: Water Treatment Plant Design (ed.
    Sanks R. L.). Ann Arbor Science, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 1978, p. 132.
40. Brejchova D. and Wiesner M. R. Effect of Delaying the Addition of Polymeric
    Coagulant Aid on Settled Water Turbidity. Water Science Technology, 26(9-11),
    1992, pp. 2281-2284.
41. Bauer M. J. et al. Enhanced Rapid Gravity Filtration and Dissolved Air
    Pretreatment of River Thames Reservoir Water. Proc IA WQ-IWSA Joint Specialist
    Conference on Reservoir Management and Water Supply, Prague, May 1997.
42. Parr W. et al. Method of Controlling Phytoplankton. UM 1223, WRc, 1991.
43. Markham L. et al. Algal and Zooplankton Removal by Dissolved Air Flotation at
    Severn Trent Ltd. Proc Int Conf on Dissolved Air Flotation, London, April 1997.
44. Bare W. F. R. et al. Algal Removal Using Dissolved Air Flotation. JWPCF, 47, 1975,
    pp. 153-169.
45. Edzwald J. K. and Wingler B. J. Chemical and Physical Aspects of Dissolved Air
    Flotation. J. Water SRT-Aqua, 39(1), 1990, pp. 24-35.
46. WHO. Guidelines for Drinking Water Quality, Vol. 2, 2nd edn. WHO, Geneva, 1996.
47. O'Conner J. T. and Brazos B. J. Evaluation of Rapid Sand Filters for Control of
    Micro-Organisms in Drinking Water. Public Works, 128(3), 1997, pp. 52-56.
48. Capacity and Loadings of Suspended Solids Contact Units, Committee Report.
    JAWWA, 1951, p. 263.
49. Hudson Jr H. E. Water Clarification Processes. Van Nostrand Reinhold, New York,
    1981, p. 123.
50. Hazen A. On Sedimentation. Trans ASCE, 53, 1904, p. 63.
51. Degremont Water Treatment Handbook, Vol. 1, 6th edn. Lavoisier Publishing, Paris,
    1991.
52. Coulson J. M. et al. Chemical Engineering, Vol. 1, 3rd edn. Pergamon Press, Oxford,
    1991, p. 319.
53. Yao K. M. Design of high rate settlers, JASCE Env Eng Div, 99(EE5), 1973, pp. 621-
    637.
54. Galvin R. M. Lamella Clarification in Floc Blanket Decanters: Case Study. J. Water
    SRT-Aqua, 41(1), 1992, pp. 28-32.
55. Cailleaux C. et al. Study of Weighted Flocculation in View of a New Type of
    Clarifier. Aqua, 41(1), 1992, pp. 18-27.
56. Kolarik L. O. Magnetic Microparticles in Water Treatment. Water Supply 12(3/4),
    1994, pp. 253-262.
57. Schofield T. Birmingham Frankley Water Treatment Works Redevelopment. Water
    Science Technology, 31(3-4), 1995, pp. 213-235.
                                                                        References   365


58. Longhurst S. J. and Graham N. J. D. Dissolved Air Flotation for Potable Water
    Supply. Public Health Engineer, 14(6), 1987, pp. 71-76.
59. Rees A. J. et al. Water Clarification by Flotation. TR 114, WRc, April 1979.
60. Pontius F. W. (ed.). Water Quality and Treatment, 4th edn. AWWA, McGraw Hill,
    New York, 1990.
61. Pfeifer B. J. et al. DAF and Catalytic Filtration for Treatment of a Challenging
    Water Supply in a Small Northern Community. Proc A WWA Annual Conference,
    Atlanta, Georgia, 1997.
62. Nickols D. and Crossley I. A. The Current State of Dissolved Air Flotation in the
    USA. Proc International Conference on Dissolved Air Flotation. CIWEM, London,
    April 1997.
63. Edzwald J. K. et al. Integration of High Rate Dissolved Air Flotation Treatment
    Technology Into Water Treatment Plant Design. Proc A WWA Conference, AWWA,
    Chicago, June 1999.
64. Edzwald J. K. et al. Flocculation and air requirement for dissolved air flotation.
    J A W W A , 84(3), 1992, pp. 92-100.
65. Amato T. DAF: Its Place in an Integrated Plant Design, Proc International
    Conference on Dissolved Air Flotation, CIWEM, London, April 1997, pp. 373-379.
66. Zabel T. Flotation in Water Treatment, in: Scientific Basis of Flotation (ed. Ives K.
    J.). NATO ASI Series, Boston, MA, 1984, pp. 349-377.
67. Dahlquist J. State of DAF Development and Application to Water Treatment in
    Scandinavia. Proc International Conference on Dissolved Air Flotation, CIWEM,
    London, April 1997, pp. 201-213.
68. Boisdon V. et al. Combining of ozone and flotation to remove algae, Water Supply,
    12(3/4), 1994, pp. 209-220.
69. Baron J. et al. Combining Flotation and Ozonation: The Flattazme Process. Proc
    International Conference on Dissolved Air Flotation, CIWEM, London, April 1997,
    pp. 341-360.
70. Wilson D. et al. The Use of Ozaflotation for the Removal of Algae and Pesticides
    from a Stored Lowland Water. Ozone Science and Engineering, 15(6), 1993, pp. 981-
    996.
71. Eades A. et al. (a) Counter-Current Dissolved Air Flotation/Filtration. Water
    Science Technology, 31(3-4), 1995, pp. 173-178. (b) Counter-Current Dissolved Air
    Flotation Filtration, COCO-DAFF, Proc International Conference on Dissolved Air
    Flotation, CIWEM, London, April 1997, pp. 323-340.
72. WHO. Practical Solutions in Drinking Water Supply and Waste Disposal for
    Developing Countries, International Reference Centre for Community Supply, The
    Hague, 1977.
73. Packham R. F. and Ratnayaka D. D. Water Clarification with Aluminium
    Coagulants in the UK. Proc International Workshop on Aluminium in Drinking
     Water, IWSA, Hong Kong, January 1992.
74. Carroll B. A. and Hawkes J.M. Operational Experience of Converting From
    Aluminium to Iron Coagulants at a Water Supply Treatment Works. Water Supply 9,
     1991, pp. 553-558.
75. Jia-Qian Jiang et al. Coagulation of Upland Coloured Water With Polyferric
    Sulphate Compared Conventional Coagulants. J. Water SRT-Aqua, 45(3), 1996, pp.
     143-154.
366   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

 76. Packham R. F. Polyelectrolytes in Water Clarification. JSWTE, 16(2), 1967, pp. 88-
     102.
 77. DoE. List of Substances, Products and Processes Approved under Regulations 25 and
     26 of the Water Supply (Water Quality) Regulations 1989, Dec. 1998.
 78. Ives K. J. and Gregory J. Basic concepts of filtration. JSWTE, 16(2), 1967, p. 147.
     and Ives K. J. Theory of Filtration. Proc IWSA Congress, 1, p. K.1, 1969, also
     Filtration: The Significance of Theory. JIWE, 25(1), February 1971, p. 13.
 79. Stevenson D. G. The Specification of Filtering Materials for Rapid Gravity
     Filtration. JIWEM, 8(5), 1994, pp. 527-533.
 80. British Water. The Specification, Approval and Testing of Granular Filtering
     Material and Code of Practice for the Installation of Filtering Material.
     BW:P. 18.96R, June 1996.
 81. Cleasby J. L. Filter Rate Control Without Controllers. JAWWA, 61(4), 1969, pp.
     181-185.
 82. Cleasby J. L. Declining Rate Filtration. Water Science Technology, 27(7-8), 1993, pp.
     11-18.
 83. Cleasby J. L. Status of Declining Rate Filtration Design. Water Science Technology,
     27(10), 1993, pp. 151-164.
 84. Stevenson D. G. Water Treatment Unit Processes. Imperial College Press, London,
     1998.
 85. Tebbutt T. H. Y. and Shackelton R. C. Temperature Effects in Filter Backwashing.
     Public Health Engineering 12(3), July 1984, pp. 174-178.
 86. Miller D. G. Rapid Filtration Following Coagulation Including the Use of Multi-
     Layer Beds. JSWTE, 16, 1967, p. 192.
 87. Miller D. G. Filtration: Two Experimental Developments. JIWE, 25(1), 1971, p. 21,
     also remarks on p. 49 by Carr W. and p. 62 by Jeffery J.
 88. WWA Standard for Filtering Material. AWWA B 100-96, 1996.
     A
 89. American Society for Testing Materials. A S T M D3802.
 90. Humbly M. S. et al. Development of a Friability Test for Granular Filter Media.
     JCIWEM, 10(3), 1996, pp. 87-91.
 91. Crowley F. W. and Twort A. C. Current Strategies in Water Treatment
     Developments. Proc ICE Conf Water Resources." A Changing Strategy, 1979.
 92. Chan Kin Man D. and Sinclair J. Commissioning and operation of Yau Kom Tau
     Water treatment works (Hong Kong) using direct filtration. JIWEM, 5(2), 1991, pp.
      105-115.
 93. Hutchinson W. and Foley P. D. Operational and experimental results of direct
     filtration. JA WWA, 66(2), 1974, pp. 79-87.
 94. Lombard H. K. and Hanroff J. Filter Nozzle and Underdrain Systems Used in Rapid
      Gravity Filtration. Water SA, 21(4), 1994, pp. 281-298.
 95. AWWA. Water Quality and Treatment, 3rd edn. McGraw Hill, New York, 1971.
 96. Mellevialle J. et al. (ed.). Water Treatment Membrane Processes. AWWA Research
      Foundation, McGraw Hill, New York, 1996.
 97. Yoo S. R. et al. Microfiltration: A Case Study. JAWWA, 87(3), 1995, pp. 38-49.
 98. Jacangelo J. G. et al. Mechanisms of Cryptosporidium, Giardia and MS2 Virus
      Removal of MF and UF. JAWWA, 87(9), 1995, pp. 107-121.
 99. Adham S. S. et al. Membranes: A Barrier to Micro-organisms. Water Supply, 16(1/2),
      Madrid, 1998.
                                                                        References   367


100. Chow C. W. K. et al. A Study of Membrane Filtration for the Removal of
     Cyanobacterial Cells. J Water SRT-Aqua, 46(6), 1997, pp. 324-334.
101. Anon. Predicting Log Removal Performance of Membrane System Using In Situ
     Integrity Testing. Filtration & Separation 35(1), 1998,
102. Mourato D. and Best G. Application of Immersed Microfiltration Membranes, for
     Drinking Water Treatment. A WWA Conference, Florida, November 1998.
103. Gene A. R. Microfiltration Operating Costs. J A W W A , 89(10), 1997, pp. 40-49.
104. O'Neill J. G. An evaluation Of Fibrous Depth Filters for Removal of Cryptospor-
     idium Oocysts from Water in Protozoan Parasites and Water, in: RSC Special
     Publication 168. Royal Society of Chemistry, Cambridge, 1995.
105. Anon. The Coppermills Works of the Metropolitan Water Board. WWE, August
     1972, p. 277.
106. Grey I. W. Lurgan and District Waterworks Joint Board's New Works at Castor
     Bay. WWE, July 1971, p. 297.
107. Pike P. G. Engineering Against Schistosomiasis Bilharzia; Guidelines Towards Control
     of the Disease. MacMillan, London, 1987.
108. Van de Vloed A. Report to the 3rd Congress of the IWSA, London, Subject No. 7,
     1955.
109. Huisman L. and Wood, W. E. Slow Sand Filtration, WHO, Geneva, 1974.
110. Visscher J. T. et al. Slow Sand Filtration for Community Water Supply, Technical
     Paper No. 24, IRC, The Hague, June 1987.
111. Logsdon G. S. (ed.). Slow Sand Filtration. ASCE, New York, 1991.
112. Kors L. J. et al. Hydraulic and Bacteriological Performance Affected by Resanding,
     Filtration Rate and Pretreatment, in: Advances in Slow Sand and Alternative
     Biological Filtration, (eds Graham N. and Collins R.). John Wiley, Chichester, 1996,
     pp. 54-264.
113. Lewin J. Mechanisation of slow sand and secondary filter bed cleaning. JIWE, 15(1),
     1961, pp. 15-46.
114. Collins M. R. and Eighmy T. T. Modifications to the Slow Rate Filtration Process
     for Improved Trihalomethane Precursor Removal, in: Slow Sand Filtration (ed.
     Graham N.J.D.). Ellis Horwood, Chichester, 1988, pp. 281-305.
115. Joslin W.R. Slow Sand Filtration: A Case Study in the Adoption and Diffusion of a
     New Technology. J New England WWA, September 1997, pp. 294-303.
116. Glendinning D. J. and Mitchell J. Uprating Water-Treatment Works Supplying the
     Thames Water Ring Main. JCIWEM, 10(1), 1996, pp. 17-25.
117. Toms I. P. and Bayley R. G. Slow Sand Filtration, Approach to Practical Issues, in:
     Slow Sand Filtration (ed. Graham N. J. D.). Ellis Horwood, Chichester, 1988, pp.
     281-305.
118. Harrison N. Dunnore Point water treatment works - Phase 1, Extension. Water &
     Sewage Journal, Spring 1997, pp. 41-42.
119. Van Dijk J. C. and Oomen J. H. C. M. Slow Sand Filtration for Community Water
     Supply In Developing Countries. Tech. Paper 10, WHO, Geneva, 1978.
120. Galois G. et al. Comparative Study of Different Pre-Treatment Alternatives. J. Water
     SRT-Aqua, 42(6), 1993, pp. 337-346.
121. Welte B. and Montiel A. Removal of BDOC by Slow Sand Filtration: Comparison
     with Granular Activated Carbon and Effect of Temperature, in: Advances in Slow
368   Storage, clarification and filtration of water

     Sand and Alternative Biological Filtration (eds Graham, N. and Collins R.). John
     Wiley, Chichester, 1996, pp. 95-104.
122. Ridley J. E. Experiences in the Use of Slow Sand Filtration, Double Sand Filtration
     and Microstraining. JSWTE 16, 1967, p. 170.
123. Lambert S. D. and Graham N. J. D. A Comparative Evaluation of the Effectiveness
     of Potable Water Filtration. J Water SRT-Aqua, 44(1), 1995, pp. 38-51.
124. Yordanov R. V. et al. Biomass Characteristics of Slow Sand Filters Receiving
     Ozonated Water, in: Advances in Slow Sand and Alternative Biological Filtration (eds
     Graham, N. and Collins R.). John Wiley, Chichester, 1996, pp. 107-118.
125. Bauer M. et al. The GAC/Slow Sand Filter Sandwich: From Concept to
     Commissioning. Water supply, 13(3/4), Osaka, 1995, pp. 137-142.
126. English E. Water Treatment Problems at Lough Neagh. JIWE, 26(4), 1972, pp. 201-
     210.
127. Wilson D. Uprating of Barmby Water Treatment Works, in: Advances in Slow Sand
     and Alternative Biological Filtration, John Wiley, Chichester, 1996, pp. 439-448.
128. Hendricks D. (ed.). Manual of Design for Slow Sand Filtration. AWWA Research
     Foundation, AWWA, Denver, Colorado, 1991.
129. Klein H.-P. and Berger C. Slow Sand Filters Covered By Geotextiles. Water Supply
     12(3/4), Zurich, 1994, pp. 221-230.
130. Schalekamp M. The Development of the Surface Water Treatment for Drinking
     Water in Switzerland. Proc IWES Symposium." The Water Treatment Scene- The
     Next Decade, 1979.
131. Standen G. et al. The Use of Particle Monitoring in the Performance Optimisation of
     Conventional Clarification and Filtration Processes. Water Science Technology,
     36(45), 1997, pp. 191-198.
132. Smith H.V. et al. Cryptosporidiosis and Giardiosis: The Impact of Waterborne
     Transmission. J Water SRT-Aqua, 44(6), 1995, pp. 258-274.
133. Guidance Manual Supporting Water Treatment Recommendations from the
     Badenoch Group of Experts on Cryptosporidium (98/DW/06/5). UK Water Industry
     Research Limited, London, 1998.
134. Logston G. Removal of Micro-Organisms by Clarification and Filtration Processes,
     Special Contribution. Water Supply, 16(1/2), Madrid, 1998, pp. 208-209.
135. Edzwald J. K. and Kelly M. B. Control of Cryptosporidium: From Reservoirs to
     Clarifiers to Filters. Water Science Technology, 37(2), 1998, pp. 1-8.
136. Cryptosporidium in Water Suppliers. Report of the Group of Experts. HMSO,
     London, 1990.
137. Ransome M. E. et al. Effects of Disinfectants on the Viability of Cryptosporidium
     Pavum Oocysts. Water Supply 11, Amsterdam, 1993, pp. 103-117.
138. Finch G.R. and Black E. K. Inactivation of Giardia and Cryptosporidium Using
     Ozone. Proc Eleventh Ozone Worm Congress, Volume 2, S-19-1 to S-19-17, San
     Francisco, California, 1993.
139. Cryptosporidium in Water Supplies. Second Report of the Group of Experts. HMSO,
     London, 1994.
140. Kawamura S. Optimisation of Basic Water Treatment Process Design and Operation:
     Sedimentation and Filtration. J Water SRT-Aqua, 45(3), 1996, pp. 130-142.
141. Rissel J. Particle Counting Augments Turbidity Measurements. JAWWA, 23(1),
      1997, pp. 6-7.
                                                                       References   369

142. Cryptosporidium in Water Supplies. Third Report of the Group of Experts. HMSO,
     London, 1998.
143. Nieminski E. Effectiveness of Direct Filtration and Conventional Treatment in
     Removal of Cryptosporidium and Giardia. Proc A WWA Conference, June 1995, pp.
     947-962.
144. Clark R. Analysis of Inactivation of Giardia Lamblia by Chlorine. JASCE, Environ
     Eng Div, 115(1), 1989, pp. 80-90.
145. Wickramanayake G. B. et al. Inactivation of Giardia Lamblia Cysts With Ozone.
     Applied Env Microbiol, 48(3), 1984, pp. 671-672.
146. Schofield T. Sludge Removal and Dewatering Processes for Dissolved Air Flotation
     System. Proc International Conference on Dissolved Air Flotation, CIWEM, London,
     April 1997, pp. 309-322.
147. Cornwell D. A. and Lee R. G. Waste Stream Recycling: Its Effect on Water Quality.
     JA WWA, 86(11), 1994, pp. 50-63.
148. Warden J. H. Sludge Treatment Plant for Waterworks. Technical Report 189, WRc,
     March 1983.
149. Albertson O. E. Evaluating Scraper Designs. Water Environment and Technology,
     4(1), 1992, pp. 52-58.
150. Haubry A. and Fayoux C. La Flottation des Boues" Un Avenir Assure, L'Eau,
     l'Industrie. Les Nuissances, 79(1), 1983, pp. 20-24.
151. McTique N. E. and Cornwell D. Impact of Water Plant Waste Discharge On
     Wastewater Plants. Proc Residuals Management Conference, AWWA/WPCF, San
     Diego, California, 1989.
152. Novak J. T. and Langford M. The Use of Polymers for Improving Chemical Sludge
     Dewatering on Sand Beds, JA WWA, 69(2), 1977, p. 106.
153. Piggott G. A. et al. Waterworks Sludge Treatment and Disposal Options. Paper
     presented at Water Malaysia '92' Conference, Kuala Lumpur, October 1992.
154. Henke H. Application of Freeze-Thaw for Handling of Sludge from the Treatment of
     Great Dhunn Reservoir Water. KIWA/AWWA Research Foundation Experts
     Meeting, Nieuwegein, The Netherlands, 1989.
155. Migneault W. Santa Clara Valley District Sludge Concentration and Recycling
     Program, California Nevada Section. A WWA Fall Conf, October 1987.
156. Anon. Lime Softening Sludge Treatment And Disposal. JA WWA, 73(11), 1981, pp.
     600-608.
157. Sarfert F. et al. Treatment and Utilisation of Waterworks Sludge in Germany. Water
     supply 12(1/2), Budapest, 1994, pp. 553-558.
158. Anon. ENDS Report 250. November 1995, pp. 13.
159. GWF- Wasser/Abwasser 137(14), 1996.
160. Cornwell D. A. and Koppers H. M. M. Slib, Schlamm, Sludge. A WWA Research
     Foundation Report. AWWA, Denver, 1990.
161. Elliott H. A. and Dempsey B.A. Agronomic Effects of Land Application of Water
     Treatment Sludges. JAWWA, 83(4), 1991, pp. 126-131.
162. Anon. Coagulant recovery system wins big award. Water Engineering & Manage-
     ment, 14(7), 1994, pp. 12-13.
                                          8
   Specialised and advanced
 water treatment processes


Softening of water
8.1   Hardness compounds
A description of hardness was given in Section 6.24 and it was mentioned that softening of
public supplies is not generally adopted in the UK in part due to unexplained statistical
relationship between the softness of water and the incidence of cardiovascular disease.
Modern detergents have also reduced the need to soften water for domestic purposes. But
a hard water can form troublesome scale in hot water systems and if a water is excessively
hard it may be desirable to soften it, but not below 150 mg/1 as CaCO3* the lower limit set
by the EC Directive and UK Regulations for a softened water. For industry however,
softening of a hard water is often required for process purposes and boiler feed waters.
   The compounds producing temporary and permanent hardness in a water are shown in
Table 8.1: the former being precipitated as scale when water is heated; the latter not. A
large proportion of waters from underground sources are hard, particularly waters from
chalk and limestone aquifers which often have a carbonate hardness of 200-300 mg/1 as
CaCO3. The hardness compounds are taken into solution because the water acquires
carbon dioxide from the soil formed by the oxidation of organic matter. A major source of
non-carbonate hardness in surface waters is the calcium sulphate present in clays and
other deposits. In contrast, many surface waters from the older geological formations in


Table 8.1 Compounds producing temporary and permanent hardness

 Causing temporary hardness                      Causing permanent hardness
 (carbonate hardness)                            (non-carbonate hardness)
 Calcium bicarbonate Ca(HCO3)2                   Calcium sulphate CaSO4
 Magnesium bicarbonate Mg(HCO3)2                 Magnesium sulphate MgSO4
                                                 Calcium chloride CaC12
                                                 Magnesium chloride MgC12



*1 mg/1 as CaCO3 -- 0.4 mg/1 as Ca.
                                               8.3 The lime-soda process of softening    371


the western and northern areas of the UK are soft or very soft, e.g. 15-50 mg/1 as CaCO3,
because the rocks are largely impermeable and insoluble.


8.2     Principal methods of softening
There are three principal methods of softening a hard water. In the first, lime (calcium
hydroxide) and soda ash (sodium carbonate) are added to the water to change the
hardness compounds so they become insoluble and precipitate. The water then requires
clarifying and filtering to remove the precipitate. In the second method the nature of the
hardness compounds is changed by passing the water through a bed of 'ion-exchange'
resin so that the changed compounds do not react with soap, and the water therefore
appears 'soft'. In the third method, membrane processes such as reverse osmosis remove
all dissolved salts from water at an efficiency of about 90-98%; nanofiltration removes
bivalent ions (e.g. Ca 2+, Mg 2+, CO32-, 8042-) at an efficiency of about 85-95% and
monovalent ions (e.g. Na +, K +, C1-) at an efficiency of about 40-70% (see Section 8.46).
In the lime-soda process the hardness compounds are removed; in the base-exchange
process the hardness compounds are changed; and in membrane processes a high
proportion of all of the ions are removed. These differences are important because the
chemical and membrane processes reduce the total dissolved solids in a water, a feature
which is often desirable for industrial applications.
   Softening in drinking water treatment is usually applied to a proportion of the flow
(split-treatment) to soften the water to a hardness value below the required value and then
blended with the unsoftened w a t e r - the so-called split-treatment.


8.3     The lime-soda process of softening
The aim of the lime-soda process is to convert calcium and magnesium compounds to the
insoluble forms, calcium carbonate (CaCO3) (partially soluble) and magnesium hydroxide
(Mg(OH)2).
   Magnesium carbonate (MgCO3) unlike calcium carbonate, does not precipitate in cold
water. The stages of treatment involved are set out in Table 8.2. It will be observed that to
remove calcium hardness, lime is added to remove the temporary hardness, and soda ash
to remove the permanent hardness. Several applications of lime and soda ash are needed
to remove magnesium hardness. In practice complete removal of hardness is undesirable
because this renders a water highly aggressive. Since in most hard waters the calcium
temporary hardness forms the major component it often suffices to remove only this by
the addition of lime. Caustic soda (sodium hydroxide - NaOH) can be used in place of
lime for carbonate and non-carbonate removal; alkalinity reduction is only 50% that of
lime softening. Soda ash (sodium c a r b o n a t e - NaaCO3) is formed in the reactions and
sometimes it may be supplemented by soda ash addition to remove non-carbonate
hardness. The advantages are that caustic soda is easier to handle than lime, only one
chemical may be required and the quantity of calcium carbonate sludge produced is less
(see-Section 7.45). The drawbacks are that the concentration of sodium in the treated
water is increased and the higher cost of caustic soda. Chemical softening, due to its high
operating pH (9.5-10.5), also removes, by precipitation of many of the heavy metals (e.g.
lead, copper, zinc, etc.), arsenic, iron and manganese.
372   Special&ed and advanced water treatment processes


Table 8.2 Lime-soda softening processes

To remove carbon dioxide in water add LIME (not a softening reaction)                       8.1
H2CO3 + Ca(OH)2 = CaC03 + 2H20
To remove calcium temporary hardness add LIME.                                              8.2
Ca(HCO3)2 + Ca(OH)2 = 2CAC03 + H20
To remove calcium permanent hardness add SODA ASH.                                          8.3
CaSO4 + Na2CO3 = CaCO3 + Na2SO4
CaC12 + Na2CO3 = CaC03 + 2NaC1
To remove magnesium temporary hardness add LIME + more LIME                                 8.4
Stage 1
Mg(HCO3)2 + Ca(OH)2 = MgCO3 + CaC03 + 2H20
The calcium carbonate precipitates, but the magnesium carbonate does not,                   8.5
so further LIME is added.
Stage 2
MgCO3 + Ca(OH)2 = Mg(OH)2 + CaC03
The magnesuim hydroxide and calcium carbonate precipitate.
To remove magnesium permanent hardness add LIME and SODA ASH                                8.6
MgCI2 + Ca(OH)2 = Mg(OH)2 + CaC12
MgSO4 + Ca(OH)2 = Mg(OH)2 + CaSO4
The addition of soda ash then converts the calcium chloride and calcium sulphate
to calcium carbonate as in 8.3 above

Notes.
Compounds in bold are those being added and compounds in italics are those precipitating.
H2CO3 -carbonic acid (carbon dioxide in water); Ca(HCO3)2- calcium bicarbonate; Ca(OH)2-
calcium hydroxide (hydrated lime); CaCO3- calcium carbonate; CaSO4- calcium sulphate; CaC12-
calcium chloride; H20 - water; Na2CO3 - sodium carbonate (soda ash); Mg(HCO3)2 - magnesium
bicarbonate; Mg(OH)2- magnesium hydroxide; M g C O 3 - magnesium carbonate; M g C I 2 -
magnesium chloride; MgSO4- magnesium sulphate.




8.4     Softening plant
Lime is used in the hydrated form, which is a dry powder. It is delivered by bulk tankers
and blown into storage silos by compressed air. A dust filter and a pressure relief valve are
therefore essential at the top of each silo. The base of the silo is conical and lime is usually
drawn out by a screw conveyor which delivers a measured amount to a batch-mixer where
a lime slurry of up to 10% w/v is prepared. The slurry must be kept in continuous
suspension by an agitator. Compressed air is fed into aeration pads in the silo cone so that
any 'arching' tendencies of the lime in the silo can be broken up by air injection. The air
used must be dry. Alternatively mechanical arch breakers (usually vibrators) are used. A
typical lime plant is shown in Figure 7.11. The lime suspension is injected into the water by
positive displacement diaphragm pumps with mixing at the point of application, and
delivered to the base of a hopper-bottom clarifier of the sludge-blanket type or to a solids
recirculation clarifier (see Section 7.16). In sludge-blanket clarifiers, sludge is intermit-
tently drawn off from the blanket, but some may be recirculated to assist in flocculation.
The soda ash plant is similar, except that a solution is prepared instead of a slurry. The
concentration of saturated solution varies with temperature; 90 g/1 (5~          120 g/1 (10~
                                                 8.5 Water softening by crystallisation 373

160 g/1 (15~    210 g/1 (20~ and 270 g/1 (25~      Usually a solution of about 60% of the
saturated concentration at the lowest anticipated water temperature is prepared.
   An excess of up to 10% lime and soda ash have to be added over that which is
stoichiometrically required in order to achieve completion of the reactions in reasonable
time. If magnesium is present, a portion of it may also cause precipitation but the reaction
is slower than that of calcium. Softening reduces the hardness value to 35-50 mg/1 as
CaCO3. If the water to be softened contains suspended solids and organic matter such as
colour, these can be removed concurrently although coagulants and coagulant aids have to
be added. The coagulants used are usually of the iron type because of their high
coagulation pH values, but aluminium sulphates can also be used as they form the
insoluble magnesium aluminate and not aluminium hydroxide. Sodium aluminate may
also be used. These complications mean that the design of clarifiers and their rise rate has
to be undertaken with care. Normally softeners are operated at surface loading rates in the
range 3-4 m3/h.m2; when magnesium is to be removed the rates are about 2-2.5 m3/h.m 2
   The dosages of lime required for softening are high, being of the order of 100-200 mg/1.
The process produces a large amount of liquid sludge due to the precipitation of hardness
and coagulation of suspended solids and colour. Treatment and disposal of the sludge is
discussed in Sections 7.46-7.49.


8.5     Water softening by crystallisation
Softening reactions can be accelerated by using sand grains for seeding the crystallisation
of calcium carbonate. Softening takes place in a cylindrical reactor partially filled with
filter sand (0.2-0.6 mm). The water to be treated is injected with the softening chemical
(e.g. lime) and passed in an upward direction at a surface loading rate of 50-120 m3/h.m 2
to fluidise the sand bed. Calcium carbonate deposits on the sand which grows in size to
form pellets of about 1-2 mm in diameter which accumulate at the base of the reactor
from where they can be periodically removed. Make up sand is added either from the top
or at the base. The reaction tanks are called pellet reactors; ~ typically they are about 6 m
deep and up to 4 m in diameter (see Fig. 8.1). The 'Spiractor' is an example of a pellet
reactor (Fig. 8.2). The softening chemicals used are hydrated lime, sodium carbonate or
soda ash. Lime is used when the ratio of carbonate hardness to total hardness is high, in
the intermediate hardness range caustic soda is used, and when carbonate hardness is very
low, soda ash is used. It is reported that crystal growth is adversely affected when the
phosphate content of a water exceeds 0.5 mg/1 as PO41 (0.15 mg/1 as P) and fluffy pellets
are formed when iron is present in the water above about 1 mg/1.2
   The advantages of the pellet reactor over the conventional softening process are its high
surface loading rate, pellets are easier to handle than sludge and only a small excess of
softening chemical is required. The disadvantages of the process are that it does not
remove magnesium, the hardness after softening is in the range 50-100 mg/1 as CaCO33
(therefore unsuitable for most industrial uses), suspended solids in the product is high (up
to 30 rag/l) and the removal of turbidity and colour in raw water by coagulants cannot be
performed in the same reactor.
   Lime is used as milk of lime (slurry of 10-100 g/l). The use of lime water (saturated lime)
is not usually practical because of its low lime content (e.g. 1.76 g/1 @ 10~      the volume
to be added would be over 10% of the volume of water to be softened. Nevertheless there
are plants operating with lime water. Use of lime, in particular the slurry, leads to carry
374   Specialised and advanced water treatment processes



                   #                                                                                                                       ,'~                     I
                               I                                                                                                               I                   ~   "' Softened water outlet



              eeoeeoooooeeooooeoeoeooeeooooooeooe
              ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
              ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
              oooooooooooooooooooooeoeoeooooooooo
              oooooooooooo:oooeoooeooeoooeoooeooo

              OOOOOO00OO000000oOOOOOO000oooooooo
               OOO00000000ooooooo000OO000000oooo
              O00OOOOO00000000OOOOOO000OOOOOOO00
               OOOO000000000oOOOOOOOOOOOOOeOOOOO
              OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO00
              ooooooeooooooooooooooooooooeooooo
              Ioooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
                ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
              oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
               oooooooooooeooooooooooooooooooooo
              ooooooooooooeooooooooooooooooooooo
               9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9                                                                     9       9           9       9       9       9       9
               9       9       9       9       9       9       9       9       9       9       9       9   9           9       9       9       9       9       9
               9       9       9       9       9       9       9       9       9       9       9       9   9           9       9       9       9       9       9
               . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
               . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

               ~'o'o~                                                                                                                              g:
                            . . . . .      ~..;


                                                                                                                                                                         Periodiremovel
                                                                                                                                                                                 c of pellets
               9       9       9       9       9           9       9       9       9       O       O       O       0           O       O       O       O       t
                   O       9       9       9       O           9       9       O       0       O       O       O           0       O       0       O       O

              :,:,:o:o:o:o:*:,:o:o:o:,:o:o:o:o:o~_..~'
               9




                                                                                                                       /~:Chemicalsinlet
                                                   x /                                                                     [:<~:=Rawwaterinlet

                                                                                   ~               Drain


Fig. 8.1   Pellet reactor for softening by crystallisation.

over of calcium carbonate, un-dissolved lime and inert impurities in the lime amounting in
total to about 20-30 mg/1 as suspended solids. They are removed by dosing with acid and
iron coagulants followed by filtration. By improving the quality of lime and its solubility,
the carry over of suspended solids can be reduced by up to 80%. 4
   An alternative to chemical crystallisation is a physical process using magnetic, ultrasonic,
electrolytic, electrostatic or electronic devices fitted to pipelines carrying hard water. The
process does not change the chemical properties of the water but modifies the crystallisation
of calcium carbonate giving an increase in particles in suspension and a decrease in the
formation of scale. Tests carried out in water distribution networks in France have shown
there was an increase in the precipitation of calcium carbonate in the water but a decrease in
the formation of scale on metal surfaces. 5 Drawbacks were formation of sludge and
inconsistency of performance. The devices are also used in waterworks on sample and lime
dosing lines and on domestic hot water systems with some success.


8.6        Stabilisation after softening
The softening reactions of precipitation are not usually wholly completed in the
clarification tanks and therefore the water leaving is usually supersaturated with calcium
                                                                                            8.7 Ion (base) exchange softening   375



                      Air vent                                                                                    Softened
                                                                                                                  water
                                             I'tii                                                                outlet

                Test cocks                     i       !!:~! !:! ........!:: ......................... ~.i

                                                                    .Q           ,
                                                                ; "'..           .

                                                                l        *   9   .


                                               \




                      Che~nlet2
                                                                                                             Raw water
                                                                                                             inlet
               Draw-offvalve
                 for enlarged                      L
                           catalyst
Fig. 8.2 The 'Spiractor' pellet softener.


carbonate and tends to form further deposits, mainly of calcium carbonate, in the later
stages of the treatment plant. If Calcium carbonate deposits only slowly on filter sand
without cementing it together in lumps, this may be an acceptable method of stabilising
the water. The sand will however require renewal every few years owing to the build up of
deposits. A more acceptable method is to inject carbon dioxide into the water either as a
gas using diffusers or as a solution (similar to chlorine injection using similar equipment)
into a mixer to achieve an alkalinity of about 30-50 mg/1 as CaCO3* and a slightly positive
Langelier Index. Carbon dioxide is stored as a liquid under pressure in a refrigerated vessel
and vapourised before use. Sulphuric acid is used in some cases, but as it converts
carbonate to sulphate, care must be taken to ensure that water is not rendered corrosive
due to the low calcium carbonate concentration. The objective of adding carbon dioxide
or sulphuric is to prevent after-precipitation while producing a non-aggressive water.
Another method of avoiding after-precipitation is to add about 0.5 to 2 mg/1 as P of a
sequestrant such as a polyphosphate (e.g. sodium hexametaphosphate). This method is
usually preferred for industrial applications. Softening is usually followed by anthracite-
sand filters.


*1 mg/1 a s   CaCO3    -    1.22 mg/1 a s   HCO3         =       0.4 mg/1 as Ca.
376   Specialised and advanced water treatment processes


8.7     Ion (base) exchange softening
In the ion exchange process of softening, when water containing hardness salts is passed
through a granular bed of strong acid cation exchange resin in the sodium form, calcium
and magnesium are substituted by sodium. The hardness of the water is reduced to almost
zero, but the total dissolved solids concentration undergoes little change; alkalinity and
pH values are unaffected. When the resin's capacity to exchange hardness salts for sodium
is exhausted the bed is regenerated by passing a strong sodium solution in the form of
sodium chloride, through it. The reverse action then takes place, with the calcium and
magnesium ions held in the bed being released in the effluent and the sodium from sodium
chloride being substituted. The wastewater is very hard with a high concentration of
dissolved salts and its disposal may present problems.
   The ion exchange resins used are cross-linked polystyrene spherical particles or 'beads'.
There are many different types of resins; typically they are classified according to their
functional group: cation resins which are strong acid (sulphonated) or weak acid
(carboxylic) and anion resins which are strong base (quaternary ammonium) and weak
base (amines).
   The total number of functional groups in the resin used determines its exchange
capacity. The exchange capacity of a resin for softening is most frequently stated in terms
of the hardness removed by a specific volume of resin, e.g. x g eq per litre* of resin and is
specific to each resin; typical values vary in the range 1.5-2 g eq/1. A second measure of
performance in base-exchange softening is the amount of salt that must be used in
regeneration per unit of hardness removed. The theoretical figure for regeneration is 117 g
of salt per 100 g of CaCO3 (or its equivalent) removed, but in practice depending on the
resin used up to 400 g of salt per 100 g of CaCO3 removed, would be required. This can be
reduced by 50% using the more efficient counter current regeneration techniques.


8.8      Plant for ion exchange softening
The plant required for ion exchange softening is relatively simple, Figure 8.3 shows a
typical layout. The size of the steel vessel containing the base exchange media depends on
the rate of softened water production required. The media bed would typically be about
1.2 m deep. A typical cycle comprises: in service (i.e. softening), backwashing with
softened water, regeneration followed by rinsing to remove excess regenerant. Flow during
both softening and regeneration is normally downwards and operation is automated. The
surface loading rate for softening varies in the range 12-20 m3/h.m 2 and that for
regeneration is about 2.5 m3/h.m 2 to give at least 30 minute contact time. A saturated
solution of sodium chloride containing about 26% w/w NaC1 (33% w/v) is initially
prepared and diluted to about 5-10% w/v before use. Backwash water is applied at a rate
to produce a bed expansion between 50 and 100%; rates vary with the water temperature
and resin type. The plant is normally operated under pressure so that repumping after
softening can be avoided; the loss of head is usually 4-5 m.
   In general ion exchange plants are rarely used for softening public supplies; they are not
suitable for softening turbid water (e.g. suspended solids should be <1 rag/l) or water



*g eq = gram equivalent. 1 g eq of hardness = 50 g as CaCO3.
                              8.9 Removal of hardness and alkalinity by ion exchange    377




Fig. 8.3 Internal arrangement of a mixed bed demineralisation unit.


which contains iron and organic matter. The process also adds an equivalent
concentration of sodium to the water for the hardness removed. They are popular as
domestic water softeners purchased by householders. In industry the tendency has been
for ion exchange softening to be superseded by demineralisation plant which can produce
a water more exactly tailored to the type of process water required, as Section 8.10 shows.



8.9      Removal of hardness and alkalinity by ion exchange
The process uses a weak acid hydrogen cation exchange resin and therefore hydrogen,
instead of sodium, is exchanged for calcium and magnesium; sodium and potassium are
not removed unless the alkalinity exceeds the hardness. Alkalinity is removed by
converting bicarbonates to carbon dioxide which is removed in a degasser, leaving a
residual carbon dioxide concentration of about 5-10 mg/1 in the water depending on the
efficiency of the degasser. Sulphuric or hydrochloric acid is used as the regenerant instead
of sodium chloride. Alternatively alkalinity alone can be removed using chloride anion
378    Specialised and advanced water treatment processes


exchange resins (dealkalisation). Chloride is exchanged for bicarbonates and sulphates in
the water. Sodium chloride is used as the regenerant.
  Water low in alkalinity and carbon dioxide to give < 14 mg/1 of CaCO3 with lime is
useful in the preparation of lime slurry and as carrier water for lime slurry since the risk of
scaling in tanks and pipework is minimised (see Section 7.20).


8.10     Demineralisation of water by ion exchange
The ion exchange process of softening is only a particular example of ion-exchange
treatment and is more specifically an example of strong cation exchange with the resin in
sodium form.
   In demineralisation strong acid hydrogen cation exchange resin in which the calcium,
magnesium, sodium, and potassium are all replaced by hydrogen ions to form carbon
dioxide, is followed by a second stage of treatment using a strong base anion exchange
process in which chloride, sulphate and nitrate are removed. The cation exchange resin is
regenerated with sulphuric or hydrochloric acid and anion exchange resin is regenerated
using sodium carbonate or caustic soda solution. Carbon dioxide formed in the first stage
is often removed by 'degassing' or by aeration as an intermediate stage between the cation
and anion exchange vessels. The product water has a pH between 7-9 and total dissolved
Solids concentration as low as, or lower than, ordinary distilled water; the conductivity is
less than 20 #S/cm. Such a treatment is therefore called demineralisation and is now most
frequently adopted in industry for the production of special quality process waters.
   In 'mixed' bed ion exchange both cation and anion exchange resins as described above
are mixed in one vessel. During backwashing the resins are hydraulically separated by
virtue of their density difference. This allows separate regeneration of the two components.
A mixed bed gives a water of neutral pH and conductivity of less than 0.2 #S/cm.
Demineralisation can in theory be applied to brackish waters, but because of the expense,
the process only finds application for waters having less than about 500 mg/1 dissolved
solids. For waters having dissolved solids higher than this the ion exchange process would
not be economic. For public supply purposes other processes should be considered (see
Section 8.43).
   In potable water treatment the ion exchange process also finds application in the
removal of arsenic (see Section 8.14), nitrate (see Section 8.24), ammonia (see Section 8.27)
and radionuclides (see Section 8.49). One of the major drawbacks of ion exchange is
difficulty in the disposal of wastewater which is highly saline and non-biodegradable.
Options available include treatment or disposal to a water course, sea or sewer.


Removal of iron and manganese and other metals
8.11 Iron and manganese concentrations
Traces of iron and manganese are found in many waters. Occasionally concentrations may
range up to 20 mg/1 of iron and up to 5 mg/1 of manganese, but at these high quantities it
is usual to find that most of the metals, in particular iron, are in suspension so that they
may be relatively easily removed by solid-liquid separation methods. It is the dissolved
fractions of iron and manganese which can be troublesome and the disadvantages arising
from their presence above certain levels are described in Sections 6.26 and 6.29 above.
Removal is therefore often necessars).
                       8.12 Removal of iron and manganese from underground waters          379


8.12    Removal of iron and manganese from underground waters
In Chapter 7, in discussing the use of ferrous sulphate as a coagulant, it was stated that
ferrous hydroxide is much more soluble than ferric hydroxide. The large difference is
expressed quantitatively by the solubility products which are 1.6  10 - 1 4 and 1.1 x 10-36,
respectively. When iron occurs in underground waters it is usually in solution in the
ferrous form in a water which is devoid of oxygen. Such waters are fairly common in
water-bearing formations which are under an impermeable stratum, e.g. where greensand
and other sand formations underlie a clay formation. Manganese in any appreciable
amount occurs in only a minority of those raw waters which contain iron. Occasionally
manganese is found without iron. Many, but not all waters from deep boreholes in
sandstones contain iron and manganese in their lowest state of oxidation* as Fe (II) and
Mn (II) and inorganic complexes which occur in solution. Since the organic quality of
ground waters is generally good, iron and manganese are not commonly found complexed
with organics. When a sample is first drawn it may appear perfectly clear, but after it has
been exposed to air for short time it gradually acquires a turbid appearance, and after a
further period a brown precipitate of ferric hydroxide is formed. Oxidation of Mn (II) is
very slow under most conditions and does not precipitate out on long standing.
   Removal of iron and manganese is effected by oxidation, followed by the separation of
Fe (III) and Mn (IV) as ferric hydroxide (Fe(OH)3) and manganese dioxide (MnO2)
precipitates by filtration; sometimes in the case of iron when its concentration is high being
preceded by settling. Solids contact type clarifiers are suitable because the oxidation is
catalysed by the oxides already present in the sludge blanket or recirculated sludge. 6
   Oxidation can be by oxygen in air or by the use of a strong oxidant such as chlorine,
potassium permanganate, chlorine dioxide or ozone. In most cases the oxidation will be
influenced by the pH. In the oxidation reactions hydrogen ions will be produced which in
turn will destroy alkalinity. Table 8.3 below gives the stoichiometric quantities of the
oxidant (in mg) required to oxidise 1 mg of iron or manganese and the corresponding
reduction in the alkalinity. It also gives the optimum pH for the oxidation reaction.
   Oxygen is added through aeration. In practice larger volumes of air will be required to
accommodate the absorption inefficiencies of the aeration system used. Although the
aeration requirements are small, the rate of reaction is slow and pH dependent, e.g. 90%
oxidation of iron would require about 40 minutes reaction time at pH 6.9, but only 10
minutes at pH 7.2. In some waters aeration alone is adequate for complete iron oxidation
because the removal of carbon dioxide by aeration raises the pH above 7.5. Manganese
reaction is much slower and also requires elevated pH conditions for successful oxidation,
e.g. at pH 9.5 manganese would require about 1 hour for 90% oxidation; for complete
oxidation treatment by aeration, lime addition to elevate the pH to at least 10 followed by
contact filtration is required.
   Manganese removal by aeration at high pH values is in most instances a slow and
inefficient process. Strong oxidants such as chlorine, potassium permanganate, chlorine
dioxide or ozone are therefore usually necessary. These will also be effective in oxidising
iron. The application of strong oxidants to water containing uncomplexed iron and


*Lowest oxidation state of iron and manganese is ferrous, expressed as Fe (II) and manganous
expressed as Mn (II) and when oxidised these are converted to ferric, expressed as Fe (III) and
manganic expressed as Mn (IV). Values within brackets denote the corresponding valencies.
380     Specialised and advanced water treatment processes


Table 8.3 Oxidation of iron and manganese

                                                             Reduction in
                                   Stoichiometric            alkalinity
                                   quantity of oxidant       (mg CaCO3/mg
Metal          Oxidant             (mg/mg Fe or Mn)          Fe or Mn)             Optimum pH
Fe (II)        Oxygen              0.14                      1.80                    > 7.5
Mn (II)        Oxygen              0.29                      1.80                   > 10.0 (a)
Fe (II)        Chlorine            0.63                      2.70                    > 7.0
Mn (II)        Chlorine            1.29                      3.64                    > 9.0 (a)
Fe (II)        Potassium           0.94                      1.49                    > 7.0 (b)
               permanganate
Mn (II)        Potassium           1.92                      1.21                    > 7.0 (b)
               permanganate
Fe (II)        Chlorine            0.247                     1.96                    > 7.0
               dioxide
Mn (II)        Chlorine            2.457                     3.64                    _<7.0
               dioxide             0.498                     2.18                    > 7.5
Fe (II)        Ozone               0.43                      1.80                  (c)
Mn (II)        Ozone               0.87                      1.80                  (c)

(a) The use of a catalytic filter medium may reduce the pH to 7.5-8.5.
(b) Reaction is known to proceed at pH > 5.5.
(c) pH value at which the reaction occurs is less dependent than for other oxidants. Low pH values
are preferred as ozone performs better under acidic conditions.



manganese results in rapid oxidation. In practice excess oxidant is used to satisfy the
demands due to organic matter, hydrogen sulphide and, in the case of chlorine, the
demand due to ammonia. Chlorine will be effective as both hypochlorous acid (HOC1) and
hypochlorite ion (OC1-), but the reaction with combined chlorine (i.e. chloroamines) is
slow. The use of chlorine may be inadvisable when treating waters containing organic
substances due to the possibility of trihalomethane (THM) formation.
   Oxidation by potassium permanganate is more effective than by chlorine and it does not
form T H M s with organic substances. Manganese dioxide formed in the reaction adsorbs
Mn (II) and catalyses its oxidation which brings about an improvement in Fe (II) and
Mn (II) removal and a reduction in the amount of potassium permanganate required. The
potassium permanganate dose applied must be carefully controlled to minimise any excess
passing into supply which could give a pink colour to the water. Products of oxidation can
'muddy' the water and form 'mud balls' in filters.
   Chlorine dioxide is particularly useful as an oxidant in the presence of a high ammonia
concentration that would otherwise interfere with chlorine. Chlorine dioxide does not
form T H M s but excess chlorine used in the generation of C102 will form some THMs. A
disadvantage of chlorine dioxide is the possibility of adverse health effects from its
disproportionation products (see Section 9.17) and the consequent U K limitation on the
dose which may be applied which must not result in chlorite, chlorate and C102 exceeding
0.5 mg/1 as chlorine dioxide passing into supply (see Section 6.47).
                       8.12 Removal of iron and manganese from underground waters           381


    Ozone reacts readily to oxidise soluble Fe (II) and Mn (II) in the absence of organic
matter into the insoluble Fe (III) and Mn (IV). When both are present, iron is oxidised
first, followed by manganese. An ozone overdose can oxidise Mn (II) to its higher
oxidation state where it is present as permanganate and give a pink colouration to the
water; stoichiometrically 1 rag/1 of Mn (II) would require 2.2 rag/1 of 03. When organic
matter is present, ozone oxidises organics before iron and manganese, thus the dose could
be several times more than that required for oxidation in the absence of organics. Iron and
manganese are more receptive to oxidation by ozone after organics have been removed by
coagulation.
    As shown above all the oxidation reactions are accompanied by release of hydrogen ions
and hence a corresponding reduction in alkalinity. However since concentrations of iron
and manganese present in waters are generally low, in all but exceptional cases there will
be sufficient alkalinity in a water to buffer the effect of hydrogen ions and prevent a
consequent reduction in pH which will otherwise reduce the reaction rates. A decrease in
water temperature is also known to reduce the rate of oxidation.
   Aeration of a water prior to oxidation is beneficial in not only oxidising iron and
manganese, especially the former, and consequently limiting the consumption of costly
oxidising chemicals for removal of any residual metal ion, but also in removing carbon
dioxide and thus increasing the pH for the oxidation reaction and in the removal of
volatile gases.
   In the case of iron, oxidation is followed by settling and filtration, or filtration alone
depending on the concentration of iron in the water. Plain settling would only be feasible if
the Fe (II) concentration is greater than 20 mg/1 which is rare. In the presence of turbidity
(and colour) and when Fe (II) is greater than about 5 mg/1 settling would be assisted by a
coagulant and/or a coagulant aid. As an alternative to sedimentation, dissolved air
flotation may be used. 9 Direct filtration is used when the iron concentration is less than
about 5 mg/1. Sand (effective size 0.6 mm) or anthracite-sand filters with filtration rates
between 5 (Fe <5 rag/l), 7.5 (Fe <3 rag/l) and 10 (Fe <2 mg/1) m3/h.m 2 are most suitable
for the application. Manganese is usually found in low concentrations compared to iron
and, following oxidation, the water is subjected to direct filtration. In the absence of
turbidity and upstream coagulation, filtration rates used are of the order of 10 m3/h.m 2 or
higher; an exception being oxidation using potassium permanganate when coagulation
followed by settling and filtration are used. Filtration assists in the oxidation of Fe (II) and
Mn (II) through the catalytic action of either previously deposited MnO2 on a filter sand,
or a media containing manganese oxide such as pyrolusite or a proprietary material such
as 'Polarite'. The media usually contain at least 65% by weight MnO2. Its specific gravity
is in the range 3.5-4.0 and size range is usually 0.5-1.0 ram. It is used in the ratio sand to
oxide media of 5:1. The retention capacity in filters is about 0.2-1.2 kg of Fe and 0.1-
0.7 kg of Mn/m 2 of surface area. It is reported that the effective size and density of the
media are not altered by the presence of the oxide coating, l~
   An alternative filter media is manganese greensand, formed by treating greensand
(glauconite), which is a sodium zeolite, with manganous sulphate followed by potassium
permanganate. Mn-greensand removes soluble iron and manganese by a process of ion
exchange, frequently with the release of hydrogen ions. The process is therefore pH
dependent, being virtually ineffective below pH 6.0 and very rapid at pH values above 7.5.
When the Mn-greensand is saturated it is regenerated by soaking the filter bed with
potassium permanganate. This procedure oxidises manganese on the surface of Mn-
382   Specialised and advanced water treatment processes


greensand to MnO2 to become active exchange sites (intermittent regeneration- IR). It is
reported that the exchange capacity is 1.45 g of Fe or Mn/1 of Mn-greensand and 2.9 g of
potassium permanganate (as a 1% w/v solution) per litre of Mn-greensand is required for
regeneration, ll Alternatively potassium permanganate is continuously supplied to the bed
by dosing it at the filter inlet, which will oxidise some iron and manganese before the water
reaches the filter (continuous regeneration- CR). Mn-greensand then acts primarily as a
filter medium and oxidises any residual soluble manganese. Intermittent use of excess
potassium permanganate will regenerate the bed. Mn-greensand has an effective size in the
range 0.30-0.35 mm and a uniformity coefficient of 1.4-1.6 and is usually capped with a
layer of anthracite to achieve longer filter runs. In the continuous dosing process chlorine
can be used in place of potassium permanganate. The benefits are longer filter runs, the
absence of risk of pink water and lower cost. It is reported that manganese dioxide coated
filter media behaves in a similar manner to Mn-greensand with operation being carried out
in either the IR or CR mode. ~2 Chlorine is the most suitable oxidant for the CR mode of
operation. Stronger oxidants such as ozone, chlorine dioxide and potassium permanganate
tend to form colloidal precipitates which are not very well retained by the filters. The use
of catalytic filtration media is usually limited to manganese which is otherwise difficult to
remove. In most plants iron is oxidised ahead of filtration.
   Organic substances such as humic, fulvic and tannic acids when found in groundwaters
can form soluble complexes with iron and manganese which are not easily oxidised by
oxygen (aeration). These and any soluble inorganic complexes such as silicates, sulphates
and phosphates are removed by coagulation or oxidation using strong oxidants. However
when iron is strongly complexed in the presence of significant concentrations of humic and
fulvic acid, strong oxidants are sometimes ineffective. The oxidation of manganese is not
similarly influenced by the presence of dissolved organics because it is not strongly
complexed by organic matter. 7'~3 In the presence of dissolved organic matter the oxidant
dosage should be selected to satisfy the total oxidant demand of the water.
    Fe (II) and Mn (II) can be removed biologically by utilising the ability of certain
bacteria to produce enzymes and/or polymers which, by catalytic action, promote
oxidation in the presence of oxygen in the water. Those which promote iron oxidation are
generally considered to be autotrophs, but the physiology of those promoting manganese
oxidation is poorly defined. 14 Those which are heterotrophs probably promote removal of
dissolved iron and/or manganese as part of a process of detoxification of the ambient
medium. The bacteria are usually present in the ground waters which contain these metals,
e.g. Gallionella ferruginea (specific to iron) Leptothrix sp., Crenothrix polyspora and
 Sphaeratilus natans. If absent, they can be introduced from a suitable source; rapid gravity
 or pressure sand filters being used as biological reactors. When both metals are present
 together in water two filtration stages are usually necessary with manganese removed in
 the second stage because manganese removal bacteria require a completely aerobic
 environment. ~5
    For iron removal aeration should be controlled, particularly at pH values greater than 7
 to prevent the chemical process competing with the biological process, and therefore to
 minimise the risk of a chemically formed precipitate breaking through the coarse media
 used in high rate biological filters. Based on a number of plants operating in France it is
 reported that Fe (II) oxidation takes place preferably with a pH in the range 6.0-7.5 and a
 dissolved oxygen concentration of 0.25-1.5 mg/1. Mn (II) removal needs a pH greater than
 7.5 and a dissolved oxygen concentration in excess of 5 mg/1. ~5 Optimum water temp-
                8.13 Removal of iron and manganese from river and reservoir waters        383


erature is in the range 10-15~ depending on the predominant bacteria. Toxic elements
and/or compounds such as heavy metals (e.g. zinc), hydrogen sulphide, hydrocarbons and
chlorine must be absent. Ammonia interferes with the process and when present in excess
of about 0.20 mg/1 as N, the manganese removal stage must be designed for a
simultaneous, slower nitrification process. When ammonia is present in excess of about
1.0 mg/1 as N, a separate biological nitrification stage using a biological aerated filter
(BAF) needs to be included between the iron and manganese removal stages (see Section
8.27). Due to the high oxidation kinetics, filters can be operated at rates ranging from 10
to 40 m3/h.m 2 using coarse sand media (0.95-1.35 mm) with a solids retention capacity of
1-4 kg Fe or Mn/m 2 filter surface area. 15 Unlike the chemical process where a clarification
stage is necessary when iron concentration exceeds 5 rag/l, biological iron removal process
allows for direct filtration even when iron concentration is as high as 25 mg/1. Back
washing is by combined air-water wash, using raw or treated but unchlorinated water.
Filters can be of the open gravity or enclosed pressure type and the filtered water requires
aeration (in iron removal only) and chlorination. Biological filters require a seeding period
before they operate at their optimum removal efficiency; this is reported to vary from one
week for iron to 3 months for manganese. 16 Sludge produced in biological treatment is
well suited to thickening (thickened sludge concentrations of 3-8% w/v) and dewatering. 15
   Other merits of these biological treatments, compared to the conventional physical-
chemical processes are: a better treated water quality (Fe-Mn residuals generally not
detectable, no interference with dissolved silica which otherwise forms iron-silica
complexes), longer filter runs, an easier operation, a dramatic decrease of capital cost
(plants are much more compact) and operation cost (no chemicals for Fe-Mn oxidation or
coagulation-flocculation, less washwater losses, less manpower).


8.13    Removal of iron and manganese from river and reservoir
        waters
Because river and reservoir waters frequently receive treatment which includes rapid sand
filtration, often preceded by coagulation and sedimentation, the removal of iron and
manganese is normally included, when necessary, in the same plant. Most river waters
used as sources for water supplies are well oxygenated, if not saturated with oxygen.
Usually, therefore, significant proportions of iron and manganese in such river waters are
present in the suspended matter in their insoluble forms and are removed by the
sedimentation and filtration treatment. However, this does not always apply, for instance
when water is drawn from a reservoir in which the iron and manganese have been
dissolved in the bottom water under conditions of deoxygenation, as described in Section
7.1. Generally the iron is fairly easily oxidised, but sometimes the iron and, more often, the
manganese are combined with organic matter in a very stable form. These soluble organics
are removed by coagulation. Strong oxidants may also be used to release Fe (II) and
Mn(II) from complexed organics and to oxidise them to Fe (III) and Mn (IV) (see Section
8.12). One method by which both the iron and manganese may be removed is in the lime-
soda softening process which operates at a pH value of 10.6. With a soft reservoir water,
which does not require full coagulation treatment, it has sometimes been found that
manganese can be removed by raising the pH above 9.0 with lime or caustic soda before
rapid sand filtration; 17 the use of an oxidant and/or a catalytic filter medium would help to
operate at a lower pH. A more general method for soft waters is to coagulate the water
384    Specialised and advanced water treatment processes


with ferrous sulphate (copperas) or with chlorinated copperas at a pH of about 9.5 before
sedimentation and filtration. More often, however, when iron and manganese are found
complexed with organics in a reservoir water a satisfactory treatment is oxidation using a
strong oxidant followed by coagulation and clarification for colour, turbidity and Fe (II)
removal, then pH adjustment to 9.0 for manganese removal in the downstream filters
which may contain a catalytic medium. Pre-chlorination or the use of chlorinated copperas
may not be desirable due to the possibility of THM formation.
   In some cases where a trace of manganese (less than the WHO guide value of 0.05 rag/1
as Mn), has passed through a filtration plant the subsequent chlorination has assisted in
precipitating the metal to form objectionable deposits in the mains. Precipitation of iron
and manganese in distribution systems can be controlled through sequestration (also
called chelation). This process increases the solubility of the metal ion by forming a bond
with it, thereby preventing it from forming a precipitate. Sequestering agents used are
polyphosphates and sodium silicates. These agents do not remove iron or manganese;
which will still be present as a soluble complex in the water.


8.14     Removal of other metals
There are several other metals that can be present in a raw water and some can be added in
the distributed water due to the corrosion of water mains and plumbing systems. Metals
present in dissolved form in raw water can usually be removed by precipitation as the
metal hydroxide. This involves the correction of the raw water pH, usually by adding an
alkali (caustic soda or hydrated lime), to a value at which the metal precipitates and can be
removed by coagulation and filtration. In most cases the pH value required for
precipitation can be achieved during coagulation by using aluminium or iron coagulants;
the latter are more effective because they have a wider coagulation pH range. Metals
which show good removal during coagulation are arsenic (pH 6-8), cadmium (pH > 8)
chromium (pH 6-9), lead (pH 6-9) and mercury (pH 7-8). 18 Other metals which require
high pH values and can be precipitated with lime or caustic soda include barium (pH 10-
 11), copper (pH 10) and zinc (pH 10).


Arsenic
Arsenic (As) occurs in the soluble form as As (III) (arsenite) under anaerobic conditions
predominantly in groundwaters and as As (V) (arsenate) under aerobic conditions more
commonly in surface waters. Both the forms can be effectively removed by coagulation
followed by solid-liquid separation process. As (V) is removed with equal efficiency by
aluminium and iron coagulants at pH < 7.5, however iron coagulants are more effective
than aluminium coagulants in removing As (V) at pH > 7.5 and also As (III). 19
Alternatively As (III) could be more effectively removed by oxidising it to As (V) by pre-
chlorination followed by coagulation using either of the two coagulants. 2~ It is reported
that a drawback of the process is that arsenic is deposited on filter sand and requires
intermittent backwashing with caustic soda. 21 A significant removal of As (V) can also be
achieved during the oxidation of Fe (II). 19 Lime softening at pH 11 to ensure all
magnesium is removed also removes arsenic. The removal methods applied to ground-
water include activated alumina adsorption, ion exchange, reverse osmosis, nanofiltration
and biological oxidation.
                                                           8.14 Removal of other metals       385


   Activated alumina adsorption and ion exchange remove only As (V), although a new
grade of activated alumina is known to remove As (III) equally well. Arsenic (V)
adsorption on activated alumina is affected by silicates (at pH > 7) and phosphate (at pH
 > 7). The effect of silicates (at pH > 5) and phosphate (at pH > 6) is much adverse on As
(III) removal. 22'23 Other ions which reduce the removal efficiency are sulphates and
bicarbonates. The optimum pH range for adsorption is 5.5-6.5 although satisfactory
performance has been achieved at a pH of 7.5. 23 Because of the effect of sulphate on
arsenic removal, any pH correction should be by hydrochloric acid. The process design
criteria for arsenic removal are given in Table 8.4. Ideally a plant should consist of an
equal number of duty/standby vessels (see Section 8.24 for configurations) operating in the


Table 8.4 Process design criteria for fluoride and arsenic removal by activated alumina

Parameter                                    Fluoride                         Arsenic
Media                                        Alcan Granular                   Alcan Granular
                                             Activated Alumina                Activated Alumina
Media type (a) (1)                           AA400G (a)                       AA400G (a)
Media size                                   0.6-1.2 mm                       0.3-0.6 mm
Media capacity                               1.4 g/100 g                      1.5-1.7 g/100 g
Media type (b) (2)                           AAFS50 (b)                       AAFS50(b)
Media size                                   0.6-1.2 mm                       0.3-0.6 mm
Media capacity                               < 2.8 g/100 g                    3-8 g/100 g
Media depth                                  2 to 2.5 m                       2 to 2.5 m
Flow rate                                    6-12 BV/h (c)                    6-12 BV/h
EBCT(d)                                      6 minutes                        6 minutes
pH of feed                                   6-7                              5.5-6.5
Initial raw water concentration              3-8 mg/1                         10-50 #g/1
Final raw water concentration                0-3 mg/1 (e)                     0-10 #g/1 (e)
                                             Regeneration:
Alkali                                       NaOH                             NaOH
Concentration                                1% w/w                           1% w/w
Regenerant volume (f)                        5-10 BV                          5-10 BV
Rinse water volume (f)                       2-5 BV                           2-5 BV
Acid                                         H2SO4                            HC1
Concentration                                1-2% w/w                         1-2% w/w
Acid volume (f)                              2-5 BV                           5 BV

(a) Specific gravity 2.6; bulk density 740 kg/m 3.
(b) New material. Removes both As(Ill) and As(V); patent pending.
(c) B V - Bed volume: bulk volume occupied by adsorbent in a vessel.
(d) EBCT- Empty bed contact time: time required for a volume of solution equal to the bed volume
of adsorbent to pass through the column.
(e) Depending on requirements.
(f) Regenerant, rinse water and acid are applied at rates moderately lower than the raw water flow
rate.
Source: Alcan Chemicals Ltd, UK.
386    Spec&lised and advanced water treatment processes


downflow mode. Following exhaustion the bed is backwashed to give about 50% bed
expansion using raw water and then subjected to co-current regeneration using caustic
soda and counter current reactivation using sulphuric acid with a co-current rinsing phase
in between. Pilot trials have shown that regeneration recovers almost 80% of the bed
capacity. 23
   The ion exchange process could be applied to waters containing dissolved solids of less
than 500 mg/1 and sulphates of less than 25 mg/1 as SO4. The process uses a strong base
anion exchange resin of the chloride form at a pH between 8 and 9 and removes As (V);
regeneration is by sodium chloride. 24 The exchange capacity of the resins is low but does
not exhaust rapidly because arsenic concentrations in most ground waters are very low.
   The spent regenerants from adsorption and ion exchange processes could be treated by
aluminium or iron salts to form insoluble arsenates or by lowering the pH to 5-6.5 to form
insoluble hydroxides.
   Arsenic could also be removed by reverse osmosis or nanofiltration 25 or adsorption on
to granular ferric hydroxide. 26 Other processes being developed include biological oxida-
tion and photo-oxidation both in the presence of iron.


Lead
Lead is rarely a contaminant of any significance in natural water. In polluted waters the
total concentration of lead could be as high as 10 mg/1 with the dissolved fraction usually
less than 0.01 mg/127 and it is effectively removed by coagulation using aluminium or iron
coagulants or by lime softening at pH > 9. Lead in drinking water is mainly introduced
through corrosion of the plumbing systems containing lead pipes and fittings, and lead
compounds used in pipe jointing materials. Lead solubility increases with increasing
alkalinity and decreasing pH. 28 The waters which are corrosive towards lead have a pH <
7 or a pH in the range of 7.5-8.5 and an alkalinity in excess of about 100 mg/1 as CaCO329
and the least corrosive have a pH greater than 8 and alkalinity of about 50 to 80 mg/1 as
CaCO3. Corrective measures are therefore applied at the treatment works to minimise
dissolution of lead, i.e. plumbosolvency. This is accomplished by appropriate control of
pH and alkalinity of the water to assist in the formation of relatively insoluble lead
compounds consisting of carbonates and hydroxide as a film on lead surfaces or by the
dosing of orthophosphates to form sparingly soluble lead orthophosphate. For waters of
low alkalinity (< 50 mg/1 as CaCO3), lead solubility can be greatly reduced by increasing
the pH into the range 9-1029 but this would contravene most national and international
drinking water standards. In practice therefore elevation of pH value is restricted to about
8.5 and not less than 8.0 at the consumers' tap but it is generally unnecessary to increase
alkalinity. 3~ Raising the pH will generally increase the alkalinity sufficiently to provide the
necessary protection against plumbosolvency. 29 Sometimes the alkalinity may have to be
increased if the buffering capacity of the water is inadequate to maintain the pH unaltered
in the distribution system. In a well-buffered water pH variation would be limited to about
0.5 units, whereas if buffering is inadequate the variation could be as much as 2.5 units.
 Soft and aggressive waters with alkalinity less than 50 mg/1 as CaCO3 could also be
mineralised by lime dosing or passage through a limestone filter with or without the
addition of carbon dioxide. 31 High alkalinity waters (hard waters) with pH > 7 may have
to be softened or alkalinity removed to maximise the reduction in lead solubility and to
prevent unwanted calcium carbonate scaling. 29 The objective in these treatment processes
                                                                  8.15 Defluoridation   387


is to treat the water to a pH value greater than 8 and an alkalinity of about 50 mg/1 as
CaCO3.
   For hard waters elevated pH values are not possible because of carbonate precipitations
and softening followed by elevation of pH is uneconomical, but orthophosphate dosing
provides an appropriate treatment (see Plate 21); the most effective pH range is 7.2-7.8. 32
The treatment is usually limited to waters of hardness less than 300 mg/1 as CaCO3 due to
the risk of calcium phosphate precipitation. 31 Sometimes low alkalinity waters are also
treated with orthophosphate either as an alternative to pH correction or as a
supplementary treatment after pH correction. 3~ The orthophosphate dose applied is in
the range 1-1.5 mg/1 as P* and a reduction of plumbosolvency by about 80% with
groundwaters and 70% with surface waters is reported after six months. 33 It is reported
that the reduction in lead concentration is proportional to the orthophosphate
concentration and several months of dosing may be necessary to provide total
protection. 34 The process is reversible and interruptions to treatment should be kept to
a minimum (<1 week); damage or repair to lead plumbing system would also affect the
protection. 34 Orthophosphate is added as one of its sodium salts or as orthophosphoric
acid. (See Table 7.7 for storage and Section 7.20 for dosing). A phosphate monitor could
be used in closed loop control for phosphate dosing. Phosphate could be dosed with
chorine used for final disinfection, but the injection point should be well separated from
the lime dosing point for final pH correction. Polyphosphates have no effect in reducing
plumbosolvency.
   The application of plumbosolvent treatment could have adverse or beneficial effects in
the following areas dependent on the characteristics of the distribution s y s t e m -
discoloration of water due to iron release, corrosion of other metals and cement lining of
pipes, biofouling, scaling, THM formation, effects of chloramination, and effects of
mixing waters in the system. Monitoring is critical to the success of plumbosolvent
treatment. Parameters to be monitored should include pH, alkalinity and orthophosphate,
and should be carried out both at the treatment works and in the distribution system. The
above corrective treatment processes when correctly applied and controlled should help to
reduce plumbosolvency and reduce concentrations to 10 #g/1 (WHO Guide Value).

Aluminium
Aluminium in surface waters is readily removed by coagulation using aluminium or iron
coagulants in the pH range 6.5-7.2. In the presence of manganese, aluminium is first
removed by coagulation and filtration (with or without clarification) followed by elevation
of pH ( > 10), oxidation and secondary filtration for manganese removal (see Section 8.12).
A similar treatment regime is applied when treating raw water containing manganese, by
aluminium coagulants. Aluminium is rarely found in ground waters in excess of 10 #g/1.




*1 mg/1 as P -- 3 mg/1 as PO4 3-.
388    Spec&lised and advanced water treatment processes


Defluoridation and fluoridation
8.15     Defluoridation
Some groundwaters contain high levels of fluoride with concentrations well in excess of
1.0 mg/1 as F (see Section 6.23). Levels in excess of 1.5 mg/1 as F may cause dental fluorosis
leading to mottling of the teeth; reduction of fluoride may therefore be necessary.
Defluoridation can be achieved by chemical precipitation, adsorption, or by membrane
separation processes. Hydrated lime precipitates fluoride as calcium fluoride, which has a
solubility of about 7.7 mg/1. Therefore theoretically the lowest fluoride level achievable by
this method is 8 mg/1. Aluminium sulphate coagulation is known to reduce fluoride levels by
10-60% but the pH must be kept in the optimum range for coagulation to ensure residual
aluminium levels are low; the aluminium sulphate dose required could be as high as 750 mg/1.
In the 'Nalgonda process '35 the combined use of lime and aluminium sulphate has reduced
fluoride levels to below 1.5 mg/1, but the chemical doses required were substantial.
   Adsorption media successfully used are granular activated carbon (GAC), 36 bone
char, 37 serpentinite, 38 activated bauxite 39 and activated alumina. 36-39 Of these all except
activated alumina have limitations which would make the processes uneconomical;
activated alumina is successfully used in several full-scale plants. Activated alumina is an
excellent medium for fluoride removal. It is highly selective to fluoride in the presence of
sulphates and chlorides when compared to synthetic ion exchange resins. In the presence
of bicarbonates, although the fluoride level is reduced, the adsorption capacity shows a
major decline. Silica is also known to interfere with the adsorption of fluoride. The
adsorption process is best carried out under slightly acidic conditions (pH 5-7); the lower
the pH the more effective the removal. Process design criteria for fluoride removal are
given in Table 8.4. The plant and its operation are similar to that described for arsenic
removal (see Section 8.14). The spent regenerant could be treated with lime or dried in
evaporation ponds.
   Reverse osmosis and electrodialysis (see Sections 8.45 and 8.46) which are membrane
type desalination processes, can be used to remove fluorides along with other ions.
Membranes exhibit anion and cation rejections in the range 95-99%. For these processes
to be successful the feed water must be pre-treated to prevent membrane fouling and
scaling.



8.16     Fluoridation
Many waters are deficient in natural fluoride and some regional or national health
authorities consider that it should be added to reduce the incidence of dental caries.
Fluoridation of water is carried out by using either hexafluorosilicic acid which is a
solution usually containing 20% w/w H2SiF6 (15.8%w/w F) or disodium hexafluoro-
silicate which is supplied as a powder usually containing at least 98% Na2SiF6
(59.4%w/w F). The acid is dosed into water either in the delivered form or after
automatic pre-dilution with water. The powder is dissolved in water to form a 0.2% w/v
(2 g/l) solution which is dosed into water. The water used for dissolving the powder should
be soft or, where necessary, softened using a base exchange softener (see Section 8.7) to
prevent precipitation and subsequent scaling. Alternatively a sequestering agent such as a
polyphosphate could be used to minimise the problem of scaling. In the design of the
                                                                          8.17 Purpose 389

dosing system care should be taken to ensure that the quantity of fluoride injected to
supply over 24 hours does not exceed the maximum dosage allowable.
   For systems dosing the acid drawn directly from storage, this is achieved by providing
an intermediate storage tank (a day tank) which holds not more than 24 hours maximum
usage. A pump should be used to transfer the acid from storage to the day tank. For the
pre-dilution system, a day tank or a system to limit the number of batches per day is
essential. For powder systems a hopper with 1 day's capacity should be used.
   Dosing of fluoride should be by positive displacement pump of the reciprocating
diaphragm type and should be of such capacity that it operates close to its maximum
capacity most of the time. Where the works flow varies frequently by more than 5% the
pump motor speed should be arranged to automatically vary with flow. Closed-loop
control of the output based on a signal from a fluoride monitor to maintain a fixed
fluoride value in the water is not recommended unless sufficient safeguard against over-
dosing can be provided.
   The point of injection of fluoride should be after any treatment. It is acceptable to dose
fluoride alongside chlorine used for final disinfection, but the injection point should be
well separated from any lime injection point for final pH correction. Following injection it
should be well mixed in the water, and a sample representative of the water going to
supply should be taken for monitoring of fluoride. Guidance on technical operation and
safety requirements for fluoridation plants is published in a Code of Practice by a UK
working group on fluoridation. 4~
   Table 7.7 summarises the suitable materials for use with the acid and powder. Both the
acid and powder are highly toxic; additionally the acid is very corrosive. Acid vapour and
dust from the powder should be contained to prevent inhalation and ingestion by
operators. Splashes of acid on skin should be washed with copious amounts of cold water.


Aeration
8.17 Purpose
Aeration has a large number of uses in water treatment. Listing the more usual, these are:
(1) to increase the dissolved oxygen content of the water;
(2) to reduce tastes and odours caused by dissolved gases in the water, such as hydrogen
    sulphide, which are then released; and also to oxidise and remove organic matter;
(3) to decrease the carbon dioxide content of a water and thereby reduce its corrosiveness
    and raise its pH value;
(4) to oxidise iron and manganese from their soluble states to their insoluble states and
    thereby cause them to precipitate so that they may be removed by clarification and
    filtration processes;
(5) to remove certain volatile organic compounds.
According to Henry's law, the equilibrium solubility of a gas in water is given by Cs = kp
where Cs is the saturation concentration of the gas in water (mg/1), p is the partial pressure
in bar and k is the coefficient of absorption which is equal to (55 600 x M) - H where M
is molecular weight of the gas and H is Henry's constant. For oxygen-water and carbon
dioxide-water systems k values at different temperatures are given in Table 8.5.
   For example, air at 1 bar containing 20.8% v/v 02 (p = 0.208 bar) and carbon dioxide
0.03% v/v CO2 (p = 0.0003 bar) in contact with water at 15~ will, after prolonged
390    Specialised and advanced water treatment processes


Table 8.5 Absorption coefficients for 02 and CO2

Temperature (~                   0        5          10         15        20          25          30
kO2(a) (mg/1 bar)               70.5     61.5      54.8        49         44.8        40.4        38.2
kCO2 (mg/1 bar)               3380     2800      2350        2000       1740        1490        1310

(a)kO2 decreases with increasing concentration of dissolved salts. In most waters the effect is
insignificant; in brackish to sea water containing high chlorides, however, it can be significant and an
approximate value can be calculated by the formula kO2 (mg/1 bar) = (2284 - 12.74 m)/(33.5 +
imC) where m is g chloride ions/kg of water.



periods, reach an equilibrium, at which state the water will contain 10.2 mg/1 0 2 and
0.6 mg/1 CO2.
   The purpose of aeration is to speed up this process and there are two main types of
aerators in general use: those in which water is allowed to fall through air, e.g. free-fall
aerators, packed tower aerators and spray aerators, and those in which air is injected into
water, e.g. injection aerators, diffused air-bubble aerators and surface aerators. For them
to be effective it is essential they provide not only a large water-air interface (high
area:volume ratio) but, at the same time, a high degree of mixing and rapid renewal of the
gas-liquid interface to facilitate transfer of oxygen.


8.18     Cascade aerators
Cascade aerators are the simplest type of free-fall aerators. Figure 8.4 shows the design of
a cascade aerator. Such aerators are widely used as water features: they will take large
quantities of water in a comparatively small area at low head, they are simple to keep
clean, and they can be made of robust and durable materials giving a long life. The plates
can be made of cast iron, of reinforced concrete, timber or even of glass. The aerator
should preferably be in the open air or, for protection against air-borne pollution, freezing
and algal growth, in a small house which has plenty of louvred air inlets. They are efficient
for raising the dissolved O2 content but, not for CO2 removal; reduction of CO2 content is
usually in the range of 60-70%. Weirs and waterfalls of any kind are, of course, cascade
aerators. Where a river passes over artificial or naturally occurring obstacles a large
contribution occurs to the self-purification of natural waters by the increase of the
dissolved oxygen content which allows the process of breakdown of organic matter to
proceed at a faster rate. From work carried out by the former U K Water Pollution
Control Laboratories 4~ an empirical relationship has been developed for the ratio, r, of the
oxygen deficit just above a weir to that just below which is:

          r = 1 + 0 . 3 8 a b h ( 1 - 0.11h)(1 + 0.0467)

where a is 1.25 in slightly polluted water, 1.00 in moderately polluted water, and 0.85 in
sewage effluents; b is 1.00 for a free-fall weir and 1.30 for a stepped weir; h is the height of
the fall in metres, and T is the water temperature in ~ The deficit ratio r is defined as

                  Cs -   Cu
          r ---
                  Cs - Ca
                                                                                                       8.19 P a c k e d tower aerators           391

                                                                               450
                       Flowsplitters
                       8 Noeachtray
                                                                                                    600
                                                                                                               225           All concrete
                                                                                                     '---"                   reinforced
                                    I
                                                                                                '




                                                                       li:i i :!i-e~i il,~!'!!"i":Draii~I'n~':!*~'Q'=:!'~]
                                                       L"   ". . . .   " "




                                   ::..:_i.:?:5!:-;.:?:.:i              "
                                                                                                                             600
oo_,                                     9 -........         ~
                                                                       i;:ii!i                              175
                                                                                                    hole 1400
                                                                                                                               ~',
                                                                                                                              =!iliV""
                                                                                                                                           600
                -;:.-'.:-:.;;:-:   -i.:? ..... .,:. :...:....: ....

                                                                                                175
                                                                                                                   2000
                       Flexiblecoupling~~)i i'}i 'i !')' ~....[                                              175


           Blindingconcrete                                        :":!!~                  "                           \        III   ~[




                            Flow150I/s
                                            v




Fig. 8.4 Cascade aerator.


where (5, and Cd are oxygen concentrations upstream and downstream, and Cs is the
saturation concentration at T~
   Number of steps varies from 3-10 and fall in each step from 0.15 to 0.3 m. The rate of
flow may vary between 20 and 100 m3/h.m weir length. To allow entrained air to mix in
the water, each receiving basin should have a pool of water of depth 0.3 to 0.5 m. Weirs
with serrated edges perform better, 42 as they help to break water flow into separate jets
(see Plate 22). If the water is allowed to cling to the steps especially at low discharge rates,
the efficiency is reduced. The space requirement is typically of the order of 0.5 m 2 per
1 m3/h water treated. The oxygen transfer efficiency which is defined as the oxygen
transferred (kg/h) per unit of power input could be as high as 2.5 kg O2/kWh. 42


8.19     Packed tower aerators
Packed tower aerators consist of a vertical steel, plastic or concrete shell filled with plastic
shapes such as pall-rings, berls or saddles (see Fig. 8.5 and Plate 22). Water is applied at
the top through a distributor and a counter current flow of air is usually blown (forced-
draught) but, sometimes drawn (induced-draught) using a blower or a fan. Air must be
filtered to prevent contamination of water; the air to water volumetric flow ratio is about
10:1. The water becomes distributed in a thin film over the packing thus providing the
large water-air interface required for high mass transfer. Surface loading rates are of the
392    Specialised and advanced water treatment processes


                        Weather cowl       AIR OUT
                       and birdscreen ~

                        Demister ~
                                                            WATER IN

                                                       Distribution
                                                       laterals

                                                     Mass transfer packing
                                                     50 mm polypropylene
                                                             rings




                                                             Support beams

                                                       Instrument
                      AIR IN ==r                       branches




                                                            Storage section



                                      WATER OUT

Fig. 8.5 Packed tower aerator.


order of 50-100 m3/h.m 2. Packed towers constitute the most efficient form of aeration
primarily for ground waters, as suspended solids in surface waters can rapidly clog the
packing. They give over 90% oxygen transfer and 85% CO2 removal efficiencies. They are
also used for the removal of hydrogen sulphide, ammonia and volatile hydrocarbons; and
can deal with varying throughputs without a decrease in the efficiency. This type of
aerator is expensive in first cost and entails some additional head on the water supply
because the top of the tower may be as much as 6 m above ground. The other drawbacks
of the system are that CO2 removal increases the tendency for scale deposition, whilst iron
and manganese tend to foul the packing. A sequestering agent such as sodium
hexametaphosphate can be used to eliminate scale deposition. After a number of years
the packing will need replacing, dependent upon the deposits which have accumulated on
the surfaces of the material. Initial cost, maintenance costs, and power costs all tend to
make the packed tower aerator costly, although sometimes it is necessary when a high CO2
content has to be dealt with, or ammonia (see Section 8.27) or volatile hydrocarbons must
be removed (see Section 8.29).




8.20     Spray aerators
Spray aerators work on the principle of dividing the water flow into fine streams and small
droplets which come into intimate contact with the air in their trajectory. Therefore they
                                                           8.22 Other types of aerators     393


can be used on hard waters and those containing iron and manganese without the risk of
scale deposition or fouling problems. About 70% CO2 removal and 80% oxygen transfer
efficiencies can be obtained with the best type of spray nozzles. There are a number of
different types of nozzle on the market and the correct type of nozzle to be used must be
chosen with care to prevent troubles caused by clogging or excessive pressure required to
force the water through them. U p to 10 m head of water may be required and a large
collecting area (typically 0.5-1 m 2 per 1 m3/h water treated) is necessary because many
hundreds of spray nozzles may be needed. At one installation 1000 nozzles are provided
for an output of 9 M1/day. Extra efficiency is obtained in some types of plant in which the
spray is broken up by impinging on a plate. The sprays require protection from wind and
freezing and should be enclosed in a well-ventilated housing with louvred air inlets.
Because of the risk of blockages of nozzles with suspended solids they are normally used
on ground waters.


8.21     Injection aerators
Injection aerators avoid the need to b r e a k t h e pressure of a water if this is particularly
inconvenient or wasteful of energy. The water may be sprayed into a compressed air space
at the top of a closed vessel under pressure, such as into the top of a pressure filter. The air
has to be circulated by a compressor. Alternatively compressed air may be injected into the
flowing water in a pipe upstream of a mixing device, such as an inline static mixer; or air at
atmospheric pressure may be drawn into the pipe where a constriction, such as the throat
of a venturi tube, reduces the water pressure below atmospheric. In the latter case the
venturi tube is of special design, having a much narrower throat than usual and a much
longer divergence cone downstream than in the case of a venturi designed for flow
measurement. A defect of aeration under pressure is that it will not remove CO2; its effect
is to increase the oxygen content of the water and to saturate it with nitrogen at the
operating pressure. The latter can be a disadvantage because air can appear as bubbles
when the pressure is released and can lead to air binding in a downstream filtration
process.


8.22     Other types of aerators
Mechanical surface aerators operate on the basic principle of entraining air by violent
agitation of the water surface. There are several forms of surface aerators which are
successfully used in sewage treatment works. Those where the axis of rotation of the
impeller is vertical are used for aerating water in large open tanks. The oxygen transfer
efficiency for a mechanical surface aerator is about 1.8 kgOz/kWh. 43
   Diffused-air bubble aeration is usually carried out by passing air through some form of a
diffuser placed at the bottom of a tank through which the water flows horizontally. The
diffuser may be a perforated pipe or a porous ceramic plate. Aeration efficiency is a
function of bubble size and tank depth; with smaller bubbles, efficiency increases with
decreasing depth. Tank depth varies from 3 to 4.5 m and tank width should not exceed
twice the depth. Residence time is about 10-20 minutes. Air (at atmospheric pressure) to
water volumetric ratio is usually between 1:1.25 to 1:2.5. Air must be filtered to minimise
contamination of water and clogging of the diffusers. The oxygen transfer efficiency is
about 10%. This method is also widely used in sewage treatment. In water treatment, the
394    Specialised and advanced water treatment processes


perforated pipe arrangement finds application in the destratification of reservoirs 44 (see
Section 7.1). When applied to a tank 4 m deep the oxygen transfer efficiency is of the order
of 0.85 kgO2/kWh. 43


Nitrate removal
8.23 General
Nitrates are found in undesirable concentrations in some water supplies particularly those
derived from groundwaters and some surface waters in areas where there is an increased
agricultural use of nitrate fertilisers. In rivers its presence in appreciable concentrations
can be seasonal with peaks during early rains due to agricultural run-off. Seasonal
variation in groundwaters is much less.
   Blending of sources is the most basic method for achieving low nitrate supplies. For
surface waters long-term storage can be used to absorb the seasonal peaks and to bring
about natural biological denitrification. Where such methods are not feasible, treatment of
the water for nitrate reduction is necessary. The two nitrate reduction processes pre-
dominantly used are ion exchange and biological denitrification. Membrane processes
such as electrodialysis reversal (EDR) and reverse osmosis can also be used for nitrate
removal. All these processes bring about a nitrate removal in excess of 80%. Therefore
treatment is applied only to a small part of the flow so that the desired concentration is
achieved after blending with the remainder.


8.24     Ion-exchange process for nitrate removal
The ion-exchange process is similar to that used for demineralisation of water discussed
in Section 8.10. In nitrate removal a strong base anion exchange resin in the chloride
form is used. As the water passes through the bed of resin contained in a pressure vessel
(see Plate 21), nitrates and other anions in water are exchanged with chloride in the resin,
thus releasing chlorides into water. When the resin is saturated with respect to nitrate
(indicated by the rise in nitrate level in the product water) the run is stopped and the
resin is regenerated with sodium chloride solution (brine) and the bed returned to
service. To ensure that a flow is maintained during regeneration ideally 100% standby
units should be provided. Alternatively at least 3 x 50% flow for small works and 4 
331,3% for large works should be considered. During regeneration the exchange process
is reversed; anions absorbed on the resin are replaced by chloride ions and discharged to
waste with excess chloride ions. Either 'classical' anion exchange (see Section 8.10) or
nitrate selective exchange resins can be used in the process. The former which has been
used with success has the drawback that nitrate is less well absorbed than the sulphate,
consequently the nitrate uptake falls off rapidly as raw water sulphate increases.
Additionally, irrespective of sulphate level in the water, a bed which has run past its
saturation point with respect to nitrate will begin to release nitrate (being replaced by
sulphate) thus giving a higher level of nitrates in the treated water. This drawback can be
overcome by terminating runs early. Other problems are that the presence of relatively
high levels of sulphate reduces the resin capacity for nitrate and increases the regenerant
(sodium chloride) consumption by reason of removal of anions other than nitrate, and as
a result of sulphate removal, more chlorides are released from the resin to the water.
Therefore for waters containing mass ratio of sulphate (as SO4):nitrate (as N) in excess
                                            8.24 Ion-exchange process for nitrate removal 395

of 3.43:1" it is more economical to use nitrate selective exchange resins. These
preferentially absorb nitrates and therefore do not show many of the drawbacks inherent
to classical resins.
   Surface loading rate for nitrate removal is about 30 m3/h.m 2 and allowing about 20% of
the time for regeneration, this corresponds to a mean throughput of 576 m3/day.m 2.
Volumetric flow rate should be less than 40 bed volumes (BV)/h; 20 BV/h is regarded as a
suitable design value with all columns in service. The resin bed would be about 1.5 m deep
and vessel diameters would usually be in the range 1-4 m. The length of a run (time
between two consecutive regenerations) is a function of operating conditions and the resin
and is limited to 8-12 hours. On completion of a run, the resin bed is first backwashed to
remove suspended solids followed by counter-current regeneration using 6-10% w/w
sodium chloride solution at 3-4 BV/h for 1.5 BVs; an upflow slow rinse follows at 3-4 BV/
h for 2 BVs and a fast rinse in the direction of service flow at 6 BV/h for 4 BV, and the bed
is then returned to service. Frequency of backwashing is about every 10-25 cycles
depending on the raw water quality. It is normal to use raw water for backwash and
treated water for rinse. The quantity of salt required is about 160 g NaC1/1 of resin for
classical resins and 125 g NaC1/1 for nitrate selective resins. The nitrate removal capacity
for the two types of resin is about 0.25 g eq/1 of resin. When treating waters containing
high alkalinity, provision for acid washing of the bed using hydrochloric acid is
recommended to remove calcium carbonate deposits in the bed.
   Drawbacks with the use of ion exchange for nitrate removal are that the process
increases the chloride concentration and reduces alkalinity of the product water, and the
need for disposal of the spent regenerant. Although an increase in chloride level of the
water has no health implication, it can increase the chloride to alkalinity ratio in soft
waters resulting in an increased potential for selectively dissolving zinc from duplex brass
fittings; water with a chloride to alkalinity ratio above 0.5 is classed as corrosive to duplex
brass 45 (see Section 8.42). The problem is less severe with nitrate selective resins. At the
beginning of the run chloride ions increases, accompanied by a reduction in the alkalinity.
The product water would therefore have a high chloride to alkalinity ratio initially;
classical resins produce higher ratios than nitrate selective resins. The problem can be
overcome by mixing the output of a run in a treated water reservoir before forwarding it to
supply, or by dividing the flow between two or more parallel units and operating them out
of phase; or using a combination of the two. A further but more costly option is to use a
bicarbonate in place of the chloride solution in the last 10-15% of the regeneration phase,
to replace the chloride ion in the resin with bicarbonate ion. Thus at the start of the run
bicarbonate ions and not the chloride ions are released into water.
   Waste from the plant contains high concentrations of nitrate, chloride and other anions
and, depending on the nitrate removal required, the volume can amount to about 1.5-
2.0% of the ion exchange plant throughput. This may be safely discharged to a sewer or
for sites in coastal areas to the sea. In other cases removal by tanker may be necessary for
its discharge to water courses may not be acceptable. For large plants tanker removal may
need to be preceded by a volume reduction process such as electrodialysis reversal, or
reverse osmosis; or in some countries solar evaporation may be used. The spent regenerant


*1 g of nitrate (as N) = 4.43 g of nitrate (as NO3). The ratio of sulphate (as SO4):nitrate (as NO3) is
0.77:1.
396    Spec&lised and advanced water treatment processes


could be treated by biological denitrification using a sequencing batch reactor; a 90%
reduction in waste brine and 50% reduction in brine by reuse is reported. 46 However, this
rarely, if ever, proves economic.


8.25     Biological process for nitrate removal
Biological denitrification of drinking water is based on the heterotrophic denitrification
process that occurs in the anoxic zone of sewage treatment process. In the heterotrophic
process an organic carbon source is used to sustain bacterial growth, using oxygen bound
in nitrates for respiration, reducing it to nitrogen. Because most water supplies contain
relatively low concentrations of organic carbon, these need to be added during treatment;
the most common substrates (i.e. sources of organic carbon) are methyl alcohol, ethyl
alcohol and acetic acid. Stoichiometric quantities of methyl alcohol, ethyl alcohol and
acetic acid required for each mg of dissolved oxygen and nitrate (as N) are 2.57, 1.85 and
3.62 mg, respectively; the actual demand could be up to 1.5 times greater. The process has
little effect on the alkalinity of the water. Trace concentrations of phosphates of less than
0.5 mg/1 as P are also needed to assist bacterial growth, and should be added if this is not
present in the water. The process is sensitive to temperature and reaction rates decrease
markedly below about 8~ The autotrophic denitrification process which uses hydrogen
or sulphur compounds to sustain bacterial growth, is also used in some full-scale plants.
   The biological process is usually carried out in fluidised bed (up flow) or fixed bed (up
or down flow) reactors where the biological growth is physically supported on a medium.
Fine sand is commonly used in fluidised bed reactors, whilst a porous medium such as
expanded clay is used in fixed bed reactors. In a fluidised bed, water mixed with the
carbonaceous substrate flows upward at 20-30 m3/h/m 2 to provide 40-50% bed expansion
and giving a detention time typically of 5-10 minutes. Before start up, the bed requires
seeding with bacteria. This could take up to 1 month. As the biomass builds up, a
proportion of the sand is periodically removed from the bed, the bacterial film is stripped
in a sand cleaning plant, and the sand returned to the bed. Fixed bed reactors are usually
based on conventional sand filter principles, the media used being a porous medium such
as expanded clay, of coarse grain size. An empty bed contact time (EBCT) of 10-
 15 minutes is usually used. Backwashing regime is similar to that used in conventional
sand filters. The treated water from the biological reaction is devoid of oxygen and
contains dissolved organic carbon and bacterial floc carried over from the reactor. Hence
the water needs to be reoxygenated and filtered through granular activated carbon and
sand filters before passing to supply.


8.26     Membrane processes for nitrate removal
Membrane processes used are reverse osmosis (RO) and electrodialysis reversal (EDR)
and are discussed in Sections 8.45 and 8.46. Both are demineralisation processes and are
substantially non-selective. Nitrates are removed along with other dissolved salts.
Membranes are prone to fouling, particularly by dissolved organic material, iron and
manganese and suspended matter. Also, since it is a concentration process, sulphates and
carbonates of calcium may increase to levels in the concentrate at which they begin to
precipitate and scale the membranes. Thus a water that is to be demineralised must be pre-
treated to remove a substantial proportion of the fouling contaminants. Additionally acid
                                                            8.27 Removal of ammonia      397


and sequestering agents such as sodium hexametaphosphate may be added to avoid
scaling. Precipitation of sulphate is prevented by limiting the ratio of product water to raw
supply which is normally in the range of 75-90%, depending on the sulphates and
carbonates present in the water. The waste volume generated in membrane processes is
consequently high and can vary between 10-25% of the feed supply; this is a major
drawback of the process for inland installation. The process may also be uneconomic if
extensive pre-treatment of the feed is required.


8.27    Removal of ammonia
Chemical and physical methods
Ammonia is present as saline ammonia in surface waters particularly those receiving
municipal and industrial waste discharges. In ground waters, it is present commonly as
free ammonia resulting from the bacterial reduction of nitrates (see Section 6.6). The most
usual method used for ammonia removal is 'breakpoint' chlorination (see Section 9.9)
where ammonia nitrogen is completely oxidised to nitrogen leaving a residual of free
chlorine. Theoretically a chlorine (C12) to ammonia (as N) ratio of 7.6:1" is required for
complete oxidation; in practice the ratio required to reach breakpoint is about 10:1. The
optimum pH range for the reaction is 7.0-7.5 which takes about 20 minutes to reach
completion. To minimise THM formation 'breakpoint' chlorination should be practised
after THM precursor removal. Organic nitrogen is not destroyed by chlorine. Ozone
oxidises ammonia at pH greater than 8.5, but the reaction is slow. 47 Neither chlorine
dioxide nor potassium permanganate affect ammonia.
   When present as free ammonia or ammonium ion, ammonia can be removed in packed
tower aerators. In the latter case the pH of the water needs to be raised to 10.5-11.5 to
convert all ammonium ions to free ammonia. The type of tower design and the packing
used are similar to those used for aeration (see Section 8.19) and for removal of volatile
organic compounds (see Section 8.29). The desorber operates on the counter-current flow
principle with air being blown upwards. An air-to-water volumetric flow ratio as high as
3000:1 is used because of the high solubility of ammonia in water. 48 To prevent 'flooding',
i.e. inundation of the packing with water, the air velocity should be maintained at about
3 m/s.
   Deposition of scale on the tower packing due to the desorption of dissolved carbon
dioxide may reduce the tower efficiency. This can be minimised by using a sequestering
agent such as a polyphosphate. Another problem is ice formation in the tower due to
evaporative cooling when air temperatures reach freezing. Air temperature also influences
the removal efficiency. The drop in temperature between summer and winter can reduce
the removal efficiency by about 25%. This may be partly offset by increasing the air-to-
water flow ratio.

Biological methods
Biological treatment methods are used for ammonia removal in sewage treatment and
their application can be extended to drinking water treatment. The oxidation of saline


*1 g of ammonia (as N) = 1.21 g of ammonia (as NH3) --- 1.29 g of ammonia (as NH4+). Ratio of
chlorine to ammonia (as NH3) -- 6.26:1 and chlorine:ammonia (as NH4 +) = 5.92:1.
398   Specialised and advanced water treatment processes


ammonia to nitrate, known as nitrification, takes place in two steps: 49 initially the
formation of nitrite by Nitrosomonas bacteria, followed by change to nitrate by
Nitrobacter bacteria. Both steps require oxygen. Carbon dioxide is the carbon source;
1 mg/1 ammonia (as N) consumes about 7.2 mg/1 alkalinity (as CaCO3). When treating
some soft waters therefore alkalinity may have to be added. The process also requires up
to 0.2 mg/1 phosphates (as P) to allow nitrifying bacteria to develop. The optimum pH
range for the reaction is between 7.2 and 8.2. Nitrification is influenced by temperature;
low temperatures retard the reaction. Water temperature should be greater than 10~
there is no biological activity below 4~ Optimum temperatures for bacterial growth are
in the range 25-30~ The process requires oxygen at the rate of about 4.57 mg per each
mg of ammonia (as N). 49 At high ammonia concentrations simple saturation of the water
with oxygen by aeration may therefore prove inadequate and oxygen must be continually
added.
    In biological removal of ammonia in drinking water treatment, nitrification is usually
carried out in filters. A maximum ammonia concentration of 1.5 mg/1 as N can be
removed in conventional rapid gravity filters, depending on the temperature and the
dissolved oxygen concentration of the influent water. 49-5~ Filtration rates could be in the
range 5-10 m3/h.m 2 and to remove 1 mg/1 ammonia (as N), the necessary EBCT is about
20, 10 and 5 minutes at 5, 10 and 30~ respectively. After nitrification the water is devoid
of oxygen and needs to be reaerated. For higher ammonia concentrations biological
aerated filters (BAF) have been used. 49 These are similar in principal to the trickling and/
or aerated filters used in sewage treatment where there is a continuous flow of air through
the media of the filter bed. The ammonia loading of a BAF filter is typically 0.25-0.6 kg of
ammonia (as N)/day.m 3 (of media), depending on the type and effective size (ES) of
media.
    In drinking water treatment the aerated filter consists of a layer of coarse media (ES of
between 1.5 and 3.0 mm); filtration is either downflow counter current or upflow co-
current with air flow injected continuously into the bottom of the filter bed using either an
independent pipe lateral system or special nozzles in a plenum floor design. The volumetric
ratio of air:water is in the range 0.5-1.0. 20,49,50 Upflow filters are generally 15-25% more
efficient than the downflow filters; to remove 1 mg/1 of ammonia as NH4 + (0.78 mg/1 as
N) at pH 7.2 and water temperature of 10~ EBCT required for upflow and downflow
 filters using 2 mm ES 'Biolite' is about 3 and 4 minutes, respectively. 52 The depth of the
 filter medium would be a function of EBCT and filtration rate, and is dependent on the
 ammonia concentration in the water; e.g. a water containing 2.5 mg/1 ammonia (as N)
 would require a depth of about 2.5 m for an upflow filter when compared to 3 m for a
 downflow filter. Upflow BAFs would have a surface loading rate of 10-12 m3/h.m 2 and a
 coarse medium (ES 1.5-2.0 mm) while downflow BAFs operate at surface loading rates of
 8-10 m3/h.m 2 (depending on the suspended solids loading) and a coarser medium (ES 2.5-
 2.85 mm), provided that the water is then filtered. Such high surface loading rates are
 feasible with expanded mineral filter media mostly of proprietary makes (e.g. 'Biolite').
 Filters using naturally occurring media such as pozzolana or carbon (2-5 mm or even
 larger to give high specific surface per unit volume) operate at about 5 m3/h.m 2 with
 EBCT of about 20-30 minutes. 53
     BAFs are washed by concurrent application of air and water at about 16 and 7 mm/s,
 respectively. Washwater should be free of chlorine. When treating surface water BAFs are
 best used after the clarification stage and downflow filters are generally preferred. Upflow
                                                          8.29 P a c k e d tower aerators   399


filters are generally used for ground waters particularly those containing high ammonia
concentrations. BAFs are best followed by a conventional rapid gravity sand or
anthracite-sand filtration in order to produce a water free of suspended matter. The
biological process is adversely affected by chlorine, hydrogen sulphide, heavy metals and
precipitates from iron and manganese oxidation and other suspended solids in the water.
When ammonia is present together with iron and manganese, the order of biological
removal is iron, ammonia followed by manganese. 15 Iron is usually removed separately. If
the ammonia concentration is high manganese will not be removed in the same filter unless
adequate EBCT is provided. BAF beds also effectively remove organic carbon.
Manganese dioxide coated sand filters have been successfully used to oxidise low
concentrations of ammonia biologically and manganese by catalytic oxidation. 54
   The biological reaction principle can also be applied to sedimentation tanks of the
sludge blanket type. The sludge acts as the medium for the growth of nitrification bacteria.
Oxygen for the nitrification reaction is limited to that which can be contained in the feed
water and the ammonia removal is limited to about 0.5 mg/1 as N.


Removal of volatile organic compounds from groundwater
8.28 General
Some groundwaters are contaminated by volatile organic compounds (VOC) which are
used as solvents in industry (see Section 6.14). The WHO Guidelines values and EC
maximum admissible concentrations are given in Table 6.1(c) of Section 6.47. Although
the compounds are normally present in trace concentrations, they can be significant and it
may be necessary to reduce them.
   They are not removed by conventional water treatment processes, being stable towards
most oxidants including ozone, and they are not biodegradable. The most cost effective
treatment is considered to be packed tower aeration; but adsorption onto granular
activated carbon may be more economical in hard waters 55 (see Section 8.30).


8.29    Packed tower aerators
Packed tower aerators, also known as air stripping towers, are discussed in Sections 8.19
and 8.27. In these the contaminated water flow is downwards through a packing, while a
counter-current air flow strips the VOCs into the gas phase and discharges them through
the top of the tower. The treated water is collected at the bottom of the tower. The process
removes over 99.99% of VOCs. 56
   The design parameters are air-to-water volumetric flow ratio, surface loading rate, type
and size of packing, and the depth of packing. These are influenced by temperature,
chemistry of the water and the mass transfer characteristics of the packing. 57 Towers are
usually constructed in polyethylene, glass reinforced plastic or rubber lined mild steel, and
need to be provided with a good water distribution system and mist eliminators on the air
discharge. Packing types are pall rings or Rashig rings or saddles and materials are usually
of plastic (see Section 8.19); packing height should be limited to about 6 metres. For
greater packing heights two or more towers in series should be considered. Surface loading
rate of the tower needs to be selected to prevent flooding of the packing and is usually
about 60-75 m3/h.m 2. Tower diameter should be limited to 3-4 metres. High water flow
rates should be divided between two or more towers in parallel. The air-to-water
400    Specialised and advanced water treatment processes


volumetric ratio is usually about 25:1 to 30:1 to limit the air pressure drop across the
packing to 10-40 mm of water per metre of packing.
  In packed towers while the VOCs are stripped from the water, dissolved oxygen is
increased and carbon dioxide is removed. The addition of oxygen can cause iron to
precipitate if present in water which therefore fouls the packing. A problem of more
concern is, where water alkalinity is high, the CO2 removal can cause scale formation on
the packing or further downstream due to the precipitation of calcium carbonate and is
expected to occur at a Langelier Index greater than + 0.6. 55 Sequestering agents such as
polyphosphates may therefore be needed to alleviate scaling in the packings. Other
methods include dosing of sulphuric acid to shift the CO2/carbonate equilibrium, or base
exchange softening to reduce hardness of the water. The air stripping results in release of
VOCs to atmosphere. Although the quantities are small, this may be of some concern for
plants located in urban areas.


8.30     GAC (granular activated carbon) adsorbers
Adsorption of organic compounds by GAC is well known and the technique can be used
to remove volatile organic compounds effectively (see Section 8.35). The adsorbers are of
the fixed bed type and can be in conventional rapid gravity or more commonly pressure
filter form. The principal design parameters are the empty bed contact time (EBCT),
defined as the bulk volume of adsorbent bed (m 3) divided by the water flow rate (m3/min);
the type of GAC used, the bed depth, and the hydraulic loading. These parameters should
be evaluated by pilot scale tests. For pressure filters typical values are EBCT in the range
10-20 minutes, surface loading rates between 10-20 m3/h.m 2 and bed depths of 2.5-3 m.
The adsorption capacity of GAC for VOCs is generally small and the media will need
frequent regeneration if VOCs are present in concentrations in excess of 100 #g/1. 58
Experience in the USA shows 12-18 month regeneration frequency. 59


8.31     Chemical oxidation
VOCs can be oxidised by ozone when used in combination with hydrogen peroxide (H202)
or UV radiation 6~ (.See Section 8.36). Ozone (03) is first injected into a reaction chamber
consisting of two or three compartments to satisfy the ozone demand; hydrogen peroxide
being injected into the second or the third compartment together with further addition of
ozone. Tests must be carried out to optimise the ratio H202:O3 and the contact time which
depends on the concentration and the nature of the organic matter. The ratio can vary
between 0.3 and 1. It is desirable to follow the oxidation stage of treatment with GAC
absorbers to remove the by-products of the oxidation and excess hydrogen peroxide. The
latter dechlorinates water.


Taste and odour removal
8.32     Causes of tastes and odours
The source of a taste or odour in a water is often difficult to identify, but the following list
includes the most likely causes.
                                   8.33 Methods for the removal of tastes and odours    401


(1) Decaying vegetation, such as algae, may give rise to grassy, fishy, or musty
    'pharmaceutical', cucumber, etc. type odours. Algae mostly cause offensive odours as
    they die off, but some living algae, e.g. blue-green (Cyanophyceae) cause taste and
    odour problems.
(2) Moulds and actinomycetes may give rise to earthy, musty, or mouldy tastes and
    odours in a water which may be wrongly attributed to algal growths. In stagnant
    waters and especially water in long lengths of pipeline left standing in warm
    surroundings, such as the plumbing system of a large building, the moulds and
    actinomycetes have favourable conditions for growth and the first water drawn in the
    morning may have an unpleasant taste or odour of the kind mentioned.
(3) Iron and sulphur bacteria produce deposits which, on decomposition, release an
    offensive smell. The sulphur bacteria in particular give rise to the hydrogen sulphide
    (rotten egg) smell. Hydrogen sulphide is also naturally present in some ground waters
    in concentrations up to 10 rag/1. The taste and odour thresholds for hydrogen
    sulphide in water are 0.06 mg/1 and 0.01-0.001 #g/l, respectively.
(4) Iron above a concentration of about 0.3 rag/1 will impart a bitter taste to a water.
(5) Excessive chlorides and sulphates will impart a brackish taste to a water; taste
    thresholds for sodium and calcium chlorides are 200 and 300 mg/1 as chloride,
    respectively, and those for sodium, calcium and magnesium sulphates are from 250,
    250 and 400 mg/1 as sulphate, respectively.
(6) Industrial wastes are a prolific source of taste and odour troubles of all kinds, of
    which those produced by phenols are the most frequently experienced. In the presence
    of free residual chlorine the phenols form a 'chlorophenol' medicinal taste which is
    quite pronounced; a quantity as small as 0.001 mg/1 phenol may react with chlorine to
    form an objectionable taste.
(7) Chlorine will not, by itself, produce a pronounced taste except in large doses, but
    many taste troubles accompany the injection of chlorine into a water because of
    subsequent reactions between chlorine and a number of organic substances. These
    tastes are usually described as 'chlorinous'. Reaction of chlorine with ammonia will
    produce tastes and odours; the limiting concentrations for monochloramine,
    dichloramine and nitrogen trichloride being 5, 0.8 and 0.02 mg/1, respectively. 61
    This is a common problem where waters containing free chlorine and combined
    chlorine are mixed in a distribution system.



8.33    Methods for the removal of tastes and odours
Tastes and odours of biological origin (see Section 8.32(1) and (2)) are due to the presence
of organic compounds such as geosmin, methyl isoborneol (MIB), phenols, and many
others. Those of industrial origin are also invariably of organic nature. Oxidation and
adsorption onto activated carbon are considered to be the most effective methods
available for reduction of tastes and odours associated with organic compounds. Of the
oxidants, ozone is very effective in destroying some of the taste and odour producing
compounds. In theory saturated compounds such as geosmin and MIB, which are
responsible for musty and earthy tastes, and some of the chlorinated hydrocarbons are not
oxidised by ozone. In practice however ozone is known to be effective in removing
geosmin and MIB. 62 Ozone when coupled with hydrogen peroxide however, increases the
402   Special&ed and advanced water treatment processes


oxidation efficiency of ozone (see Section 8.36) and therefore can be more effective in
reducing tastes and odour, 63 including those due to geosmin and MIB. 64
  Other oxidants such as potassium permanganate (see Section 8.12) and chlorine dioxide
have been successfully used for taste and odour removal. Chlorine dioxide is useful when
phenols are present as it does not form chlorophenols (see Section 9.17).
  Activated carbon is the most effective method of removing taste and odour compounds
of organic nature. It can be used in either the powdered activated carbon (PAC) or
granular activated carbon (GAC) form. GAC is normally used when taste and odour
removal is required continuously for long periods; for seasonal occurrence lasting several
days at a time or dealing with pollution incidents it may be economical to use PAC. When
used as PAC the dosages can vary between 10-30 mg/1 divided between the works inlet
ahead of clarifiers and the filter inlets, with dosages to the latter maintained below about
5 mg/1. When applied at the works inlet the PAC dose may need to be increased to
accomodate those organics which otherwise have been removed by coagulation. Addition
of PAC With the coagulant can reduce the adsorption efficiency because PAC is
incorporated into the floc particles 65 and organics must therefore diffuse through the floc.
When PAC adsorption is preceded by coagulation, organic removal is improved 66 because
PAC adheres to the outer surface of the floc. Good mixing and sufficient contact time are
the important design parameters. When dosed at the works inlet, a contact time of
15 minutes is sufficient. 67 Sludge blanket and solids recirculation tanks provide adequate
contact time; however organics contained in sludge are known to utilise some of the
adsorption capacity of PAC. For filter inlet dosing the filters provide the necessary contact
time. PAC is stored as a powder and dosed as a slurry (see Section 7.20). GAC is used in
adsorbers of the rapid gravity or pressure filter type (see Section 7.32). It is sometimes used
in place of sand as a media in rapid gravity filters for turbidity removal, but organics
removal is more effective when GAC adsorbers are used after rapid gravity filtration. For
taste and odour removal only, an EBCT of 10 minutes is adequate and the life of a GAC
bed between regenerations may be 2 to 3 years or longer if ozone or ozone-hydrogen
peroxide oxidation is used with GAC (see Section 8.35).
   Aeration can sometimes improve the palatability of water which is made poor due to
stagnation, such as the bottom waters of reservoirs. It is also effective for taste and odour
caused by compounds with high vapour pressures such as chlorinated solvents, some
hydrocarbons and hydrogen sulphide. Taste complaints resulting from iron, etc. in water
that has been left to stagnate in the ends of mains can be overcome by flushing.

Hydrogen sulphide removal
In natural waters hydrogen sulphide (H2S) is in equilibrium with hydrosulphide (HS-) and
sulphide ($2-); HzS is predominant up to pH 7, between pH 7 and 13 more than 50% is
HS- and above pH 13, S2- predominates. Aeration is effective in removing HzS at pH <6
when over 90% is free HzS; a packed tower aerator (see Section 8.19) removes > 95%.
Aeration removes CO2 in preference to HzS thus raising the pH. Acid dosing may
therefore be necessary to maintain the pH < 6.
   H2S could also be removed by chemical oxidation using chlorine, hydrogen peroxide or
ozone. In the oxidation reactions elemental sulphur is formed initially and then further
oxidised to sulphuric acid. The latter reaction takes place at low pH. At pH values between
6 and 9, elemental sulphur reacts with residual sulphides even in the presence of an oxidant
to form obnoxious polysulphides and a milky blue suspension of colloidal sulphur. 68
                                                  8.35 Advanced treatment processes    403


Treatment consists of converting colloidal sulphur and polysulphides formed in the
oxidation reaction to thiosulphate by the addition sulphur dioxide (or sodium bisulphite)
and then converting the thiosulphate formed to sulphate by chlorination. 61'68 Poly-
sulphides are not formed at pH > 9. Potassium permanganate oxidises H2S only to
elemental sulphur. It is also known to introduce soluble manganese into a water. The
stoichiometric quantities of oxidant required for the oxidation of 1 mg of HzS to elemental
sulphur are 2.1 mg of chlorine, 1 mg of hydrogen peroxide, 1.41 mg of ozone and 6.2 mg
of potassium permanganese. Due to high cost, chemical oxidation is used after aeration to
remove the residual HzS remaining in the water.


Micropollutants removal
8.34    General
Micropollutants were described in Section 6.31 and include pesticides, volatile organic
carbons (VOC) such as chlorinated organic solvents, trihalomethanes (THM), polynuclear
aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB). THMs are some-
times present in surface waters which have received industrial discharges, but are
commonly formed during the chlorination of water containing THM precursors, which
are the natural organic substances such as humic and fulvic acids that impart colour to the
water, and algal metabolic products and cell debris (see Section 9.7). Micropollutants
occur in concentrations of the order of micro or sub-microgram per litre and in most
instances their removal is necessary to comply with standards set for drinking water
quality (see Section 6.47).
   Conventional chemical coagulation, clarification and filtration and also slow sand
filtration achieve partial removal depending on the type and the nature of the
micropollutant. In most instances a significant reduction in the concentration of THM
precursors is achieved by coagulation. The subsequent formation of THM depends on the
concentration of precursors remaining, the chlorine dose applied, pH and temperature of
the water and the contact time. For effective removal of micropollutants, conventional
treatment processes alone are usually insufficient to meet the recognised standards for
drinking water quality and need to be supplemented with advanced treatment processes
including advanced oxidation processes.


8.35    Advanced treatment processes
Granular activated carbon adsorbers
It is well known that activated carbon is effective in removing organic compounds from
water. It has been used in the past primarily in the form of powdered activated carbon
(PAC) for the removal of taste and odour producing organic compounds. As PAC is
normally dosed at the inlet to a treatment works, a high organic loading in the raw water
will decrease the adsorption capacity of PAC in relation to any organic micropollutants
present. PAC is used for the removal of pesticides from a raw water subject to seasonal
changes. The removal efficiency increases with dose and contact time. An allowance
should be made in the PAC dose to satisfy other organic demands particularly when the
concentration of natural organic matter exceeds that of the pesticides. Complete removal
of several pesticides has been reported in direct filtration plants treating ground waters
404   Specialised and advanced water treatment processes


using PAC doses of 5-10 mg/1 supplemented by a small coagulant dose; PAC was
available for adsorption throughout the duration of filter run. 69
   With the development of regenerable GAC and reactivation facilities, many water
undertakings have switched from using PAC, which is costly and thrown away after using
once, to GAC which although it is about two to three times the cost of PAC can be reused
after reactivation. Since the introduction of more rigorous standards for drinking water
quality the use of GAC has become widely used for the removal of micropollutants. For
best results GAC adsorbers should be installed downstream of rapid gravity filters used
for turbidity removal.
   Activated carbon can be made from wood, coal, coconut shells or peat. The material is
first carbonised by heating and then is 'activated' by heating to a high temperature whilst
providing it with oxygen in the form of a stream of air or steam. Sometimes chemical
activation by phosphoric acid is used. It is then ground to a granular or powdered form. It
is a relatively pure form of carbon with a fine capillary structure which gives it a very high
surface area per unit of volume. The adsorption capacity of GAC is described by various
parameters including Iodine Number and BET surface area (see Table 7.11). GAC can be
reactivated by heating to 800~ in steam or CO2, or chemically (either on or off-site) but in
the process a substantial proportion, up to 25%, of the carbon may be lost. Reactivation
restores GAC to almost its original adsorption capacity. 7~ However, it is reported that
metals which are adsorbed by GAC are not effectively removed by reactivation and result
in a reduction of adsorptive capacity (indicated by low BET surface area value) and, when
GAC is returned to service, these metals may be released into the filtered water. Both
problems can be overcome by including an acid wash of the GAC; superior results are
obtained by a pre-reactivation wash over a post-reactivation wash 71 (see Section 7.32).
   GAC adsorbers are of conventional rapid gravity or pressure filter design and the basic
design parameters are the bed depth or hydraulic loading (flow per unit area; m3/h.m 2)
and the empty bed contact time (EBCT). When used as filters they are washed by water
only or by air followed by water; combined application of air and water is considered
unsuitable due to the high losses caused by attrition. When GAC is used for adsorption
only, a water only wash is considered adequate, although at least an intermittent air-water
wash may be beneficial to maintain a well mixed bed and to minimise the development of
the adsorption front formed when in service. GAC is less dense than sand, and requires
20-30% bed expansion during backwashing, depending on the type of carbon used. The
frequency of backwashing of GAC adsorbers at ground water sites could vary from once
every 2-8 weeks depending on the raw water quality. At surface water sites, in order to
maintain low bacterial counts in the filtered water, the backwashing should include an air
 scour and the frequency should be 2-3 days. This can also help to control the growth of
micro-animals (nematodes, chironomid midge larvae) because the wash frequency is
 shorter than their reproductive cycle. The problem of micro-animals could also be
 overcome by chlorinating the backwash water or taking a filter out of service for a period
 sufficient to produce anaerobic conditions in the filter, to kill the micro-animals. This
 should be carefully controlled not to loose biological activity in the filter and to prevent
 the formation of ammonia and nitrite in the filter. Details of GAC adsorber design are
 given in Section 7.32.
    GAC characteristics will vary according to the base material used. For example the
 absorptive capacity for the pesticide atrazine varies in the order wood > coconut shell >
 peat > c o a l . 72 However coal based GAC finds wide use for most water treatment
                                                   8.35 Advanced treatment processes    405


applications. Pilot plant work or laboratory accelerated column tests (ACT) should be
used to optimise the GAC type and other design parameters, such as adsorption capacity
(by Freundlich adsorption isotherm) and life of carbon between reactivation (by ACT).
Empty bed contact time will vary for different micropollutants and is usually in the range
5-30 minutes. For pesticide removal an EBCT in the range 15-30 minutes is used. An
EBCT of about 10 minutes is considered adequate for THMs and VOCs.
   Although GAC removes most micropollutants efficiently, the adsorption capacity
towards some is low, so that frequent reactivation may be necessary which makes the
adsorption process costly. For example using an EBCT of 10-30 minutes most pesticides
may show breakthrough in 6-12 months; THMs in 6-12 months and VOCs in 6-18
months. But if only taste and odour removal is required, breakthrough normally occurs in
2-3 years when using an EBCT of about 10 minutes. In total organic carbon (TOC)
removal breakthrough occurs in about 3 months. In one UK works it has been shown that
the TOC removal efficiency reduced from 90% to 10% in 14 weeks, but this did not have
any adverse effect on the THM concentration in the final water which was significantly
less than that before the installation of GAC. 73 For TOC removal a criterion used for
estimating GAC life is 50 m 3 water treated per kg of GAC. TM

Biological activated carbon reactors
Dissolved organic carbon (DOC) present in water is primarily in the form of refractory or
poorly biodegradable compounds with some biodegradable dissolved organic carbon
(BDOC) present which is also called assimilable organic carbon (AOC). In the GAC, all
organics are adsorbed irrespective of their biodegradability but the presence of BDOC will
lead to limited biological activity occurring after a few weeks. Although a high proportion
of the organics will be removed by adsorption, the GAC life is ultimately determined by
the refractory organic breakthrough.
   Ozonation of the water upstream of GAC adsorbers can, however, transform a large
proportion of the refractory organics into BDOCs, thus promoting biological activity in
the adsorber which will help to remove organic matter which is otherwise unaffected or
only marginally affected directly by ozone oxidation. VOCs and some pesticides are
examples of such compounds. In the adsorbers the GAC acts more as a biomass substrate
and less as an adsorber, hence GAC beds used in this fashion are called biological
activated carbon (BAC) reactors. In the biological reaction the BDOCs are converted to
carbon dioxide, thus more of the adsorption capacity of GAC is available to deal with a
smaller proportion of refractory organics. The life of the GAC between reactivation is
therefore increased many-fold. For example, for pesticide removal an increase in running
time to 1.5 years is reported. 75 THMs once formed cannot be removed with ozone or BAC
treatment. BAC reactors are of similar design to conventional rapid gravity sand or GAC
adsorbers (see Sections 7.26 and 7.32). For best results they should be installed after rapid
gravity filters which are used for turbidity removal. Zooplankton can grow in BAC
reactors and bacterial counts in filtered water tend to be high. Therefore reactor washing
should be efficient and frequent. Filter wash is similar to that described for GAC
adsorbers except that unchlorinated water is preferred for washing filters. Filter washing
should be by the application of air followed by water to prevent accumulation of mud
balls formed as a result of slime growth in the filter and zooplankton and bacteria control.
In some cases the filtered water may be devoid of oxygen due to the oxygen consumption
during biological activity, therefore oxygenation of the filtered water may be necessary. 75
406    Special&ed and advanced water treatment processes


The frequency of washing the reactors should be similar to GAC adsorbers. For most
applications an EBCT of 10-15 minutes is generally considered adequate. Larger EBCTs
will help to increase the service life of carbon between regeneration. In BAC reactors TOC
is more effectively removed than in GAC adsorbers; following a very high initial removal
it stabilises at about 30-40% thereafter. 76'77 A high proportion of the remaining TOC
could be non-biodegradable refractory organic matter, therefore the use of ozone with
GAC produces a biologically stable water thus reducing the risk of aftergrowths in the
distribution system and minimise THM formation in the subsequent chlorination for
disinfection.
   In the ozonation stage pathogenic micro-organisms are significantly reduced, but the
water from the BAC reactors will contain a higher level of non-pathogenic bacteria, thus
requiring an effective disinfection stage such as chlorination for their removal. 78




8.36     Advanced oxidation processes
The effectiveness of oxidation of organic matter by ozone can be increased by using it in
conjunction with hydrogen peroxide. 79 This advanced oxidation process is sometimes called
'peroxone' and produces the so called hydroxyl free radicals which break down organics
including those resistant to ozone such as some pesticides and VOCs. For example this
process is known to improve atrazine removal, from 15 to 40% using ozone alone, to 70-
85%. 8o Removal is better at low alkalinities and pH in the range 7-7.5. The hydrogen
peroxide: ozone ratio used depends on the application and varies from less than 0.3:1 for
controlling taste and odour compounds 63 to 0.5:1 for controlling pesticides and VOCs. 81 In
the 'peroxone' process ozone is added to the first stage of a two or three stage contact
chamber in which ozone rapidly oxidises reactive organic substances, followed by the second
stage where the ozonation efficiency towards less reactive organic substances is substantially
increased by the addition of hydrogen peroxide. Alternatively the second chamber is used
for disinfection with the final chamber being used for hydrogen peroxide-ozone reaction.
Again the process is best used downstream of rapid gravity filters after a significant
proportion of the organic load has been removed. Like ozone the 'peroxone' process
converts refractory organic substances to readily biodegradable compounds which should be
removed in biological activated carbon reactors. These reactors will also act as safety filters
in removing the by-products of oxidation and any unreacted hydrogen peroxide which
would otherwise dechlorinate the water when final residual chlorination is adopted.
   The high oxidative power of hydrogen peroxide and the large volume of oxygen
generated and the heat evolved from its decomposition make it a hazardous chemical to
handle. Correct material selection and good facility design can eliminate hazards. For
waterworks application the commercial grade of solution strength 35% w/w would
 normally be used (see Table 7.7).
   Ozonation coupled with UV-radiation instead of the hydrogen peroxide is also known
 to increase the oxidation efficiency of ozone. 82 but work on this process has only been
carried out at laboratory and pilot plant level. UV irradiation alone is reported to give
 70% removal of acid pesticides such as mecoprop, MCPA and bromoxynil at a radiation
 dose of 200 Wh/m 3. However the removal of atrazine was limited to 30%; 82 increasing the
 energy input to 700 Wh/m 3 increased the removal to about 70%. 83
                                           8.38 Physical and electrochemical corrosion 407


8.37     Colour removal
Natural colour is primarily due to humic and fulvic acids. It is colloidal, therefore it can be
very effectively removed by coagulation using aluminium and iron salts. 84 Removal is
most effective at pH values of about 5-5.5; iron salts at low coagulation pH values are
considered to be most suitable. Nevertheless aluminium salts are successfully used with
some waters for colour removal particularly lowland waters in the pH range 6.5-7.2 and
upland waters in the pH range 5.5-6. Since colour is organic in nature it is susceptible to
oxidation by chlorine, chlorine dioxide and ozone. Chlorine, although very effective in
breaking down colour, is not recommended due to the formation of THMs. 85 Therefore
chlorinated ferrous sulphate, although effective in colour removal, is not recommended
due to the potential for T H M formation with excess chlorine. The ozone dose required to
breakdown colour can be high and it is therefore beneficial to use it in combination with
chemical coagulation, sedimentation and filtration, the ozone being used to oxidise the
residual colour. Grampian Water (UK) is using ozone (up to 5.5 mg/1 with 15 minutes
contact) ahead of slow sand filters to reduce colour from 70 to less than 20 ~ Hazen at the
Invercannie slow sand filtration plant.
   Colour can be removed by membrane processes. There are several plants in Scotland
using spirally wound cellulose acetate nanofiltration membranes to reduce true colour. It
is reported that colour removal of 100 ~ Hazen to less than 1~ Hazen and total iron removal
of 1.35 to less than 0.01 mg/1 as Fe have been achieved. 86 Membranes were operated in the
cross-flow mode (see Section 7.36) with recycle. Fouling of the membranes was high.
Frequent cleaning by chemicals and detergent was necessary, with membrane replacement
every three years. Tubular membranes also of cellulose acetate were effective without pre-
treatment and required less frequent cleaning. Performance was slightly inferior reducing
the colour to less than 10~ Hazen.


Corrosion causes and prevention
8.38     Physical and electrochemical corrosion
High velocities of water flow can cause deep pitting and erosion of surfaces due to the
phenomenon known as cavitation. Section 12.20 describes how cavitation occurs, and
Plate 6 shows a case where it is thought to have caused major destruction of concrete. The
same kind of corrosion causes pitting and erosion of metal surfaces, such as on the blades
of centrifugal pumps, on valve gates where valves are kept almost closed, at nozzles where
high water velocities are created, and at bends in pipes, tunnels and conduits where high
velocity flow, at a pressure below atmospheric, moves to an area of higher pressure.
Cavitation corrosion can therefore be avoided by hydraulic design measures which avoid
high velocities of flow impinging on surfaces where a sudden increase of pressure occurs,
or where pulsating pressures occur.
   Electrochemical corrosion occurs where two different metals having an electropotential
between them are immersed in a common body of water. All natural waters can act as an
electrolyte, but the degree to which they do so depends on the dissolved chemicals present.
The metal which loses ions to the electrolyte and therefore corrodes is termed the 'anode';
the other is the 'cathode' which gains ions. Of the metals commonly used in water supply
systems, zinc is anodic to iron and steel, which are themselves anodic to copper. Thus zinc-
galvanised pipes or tanks may corrode if fed by water which has passed through copper
408    Specialised and advanced water treatment processes


pipes; and corrosion of lead joints can occur in lead-soldered copper pipework, because
lead is anodic to copper. Electrochemical corrosion can also occur because the metal of a
pipe may vary locally from place to place, creating 'pockets' of differing material which
have an electropotential between them. Corrosion processes are complicated by the further
chemical reactions that can occur. Thus anodic corrosion of iron piping can produce
tubercles of rust, which alter the rate of corrosion, and beneath which other forms of
corrosion (e.g. anaerobic) can occur. Ions deposited on the cathode may reduce its
cathodic effect, so the electrochemical reaction dies away; or the ions may be constantly
removed by flowing water or combine with other substances in the water so the anodic
corrosion continues or may even increase.
   Unprotected metal pipes when buried in wet soil which acts as an electrolyte, corrode
externally. The corrosion can be increased if the pipes become anodic to other buried
metallic structures in the soil, particularly so if the other buried structures are acting as
'earths' to electrical apparatus which introduce stray currents into the soil. Soil surveys
can locate conditions likely to cause external corrosion which are said to include: 87
9     soils with a moisture content above 20%;
9     acid soils with a pH of 4 or below;
9     poorly aerated soils containing soluble sulphates (see below);
9     soils with a resistivity less than 2000 ohm cm.
Cathodic protection and sleeving of pipelines are measures widely adopted to prevent
external pipeline corrosion as described in Sections 13.6 and 13.12.


8.39      Bacterial corrosion
Sulphate-reducing bacteria (i.e. Desulfovibrio desulfuricans) existing in anaerobic condi-
tions, i.e. in the absence of oxygen, can cause iron to be corroded. Many of these bacteria
are capable of living on a mineral diet and, as a result of their metabolism, they produce
hydrogen sulphide which attacks iron and steel and forms the end product ferrous
sulphide. Steel thus becomes pitted and cast iron becomes 'graphitised', ss in which state it
becomes soft. Sulphate-reducing bacteria may be most numerous in waterlogged clay soils
where no oxygen is present and where sulphur in the form of calcium sulphate is very likely
to occur. In such clays the sulphate reducing bacteria are one of the most virulent forms of
attack on iron and steel. Backfilling pipe trenches with chalk, gravel or sand to prevent
anaerobic conditions arising, in addition to cathodic protection and sleeving, are used to
prevent this form of corrosion.
   Iron bacteria (e.g. Crenothrix, Leptothrix and Gallionella types) may be present in a
water which lacks oxygen (as evidenced by the presence of sulphates and hydrogen
sulphide in the water), and may cause internal corrosion. These are bacteria which have
the power of absorbing oxygen and then oxidising iron from the water or iron pipes and
storing it. They are aerobic and, under favourable conditions, can form large deposits of
slime which are objectionable, giving rise to odours and staining. Their growth is an ever-
present possibility when a water has a high iron content.
   Tuberculation inside an iron main is sometimes set off by sulphate reducing bacteria, or
more commonly by organic substances in the water, a low pH, or high oxygen content of
the water. The external surface of a tubercle or nodule consists of a hard crust of ferric
hydroxide, often strengthened by calcium carbonate and magnesium dioxide. Below this
                                                8.40 Corrosion caused by water qualities   409


exterior crust, conditions tend to be anaerobic so that sulphate-reducing bacteria can
flourish creating further products of corrosion. Hence two remedies for the prevention of
internal tuberculation are the aeration of a sulphate or hydrogen sulphide containing
water, and lining the interior of the pipeline with an epoxy resin or with cement mortar.


8.40       Corrosion caused by water qualities
Water is a ubiquitous solvent so that it readily takes into solution a wide variety of gases
and substances. Hence distilled, demineralised or desalinated water which contains almost
no dissolved substances is always highly aggressive to metals and concrete. Some waters
have a tendency to corrode metals due to a high content of chloride or other saline
constituents. In some cases free residual chlorine will tend to cause corrosion, due to its
oxidation potential. However, the extent to which corrosion occurs depends in most cases
largely upon the acidity or carbon dioxide content of the water and the extent to which this
is countered by the presence of calcium carbonate alkalinity in the water and a sufficiently
high pH. The relationship between alkalinity and dissolved carbon dioxide at equilibrium
is given in Table 8.6 which is based on a graph by Cox. 89
   The primary consideration is whether or not the carbon dioxide in the water is sufficient to
keep its dissolved calcium bicarbonate in equilibrium with solid calcium carbonate. If the
amount of carbon dioxide is more than sufficient to achieve this balance, the excess is termed
'aggressive' free carbon dioxide, and the water will tend to dissolve any protective coating of
solid calcium carbonate with which it comes into contact. For example, from Table 8.6, a
water having an alkalinity of 125 mg/1 as CaCO3 at pH 7.5. is aggressive if free CO2
concentration exceeds 7.5 mg/1. Conversely, a water with less free carbon dioxide will deposit
some of the calcium bicarbonate as a protective coating of calcium carbonate on metals.
   The 'chalk test' is therefore a useful way of determining whether or not a water is in
equilibrium with calcium carbonate. A sample of water is placed in contact with powdered
chalk and the pH is determined at which it no longer deposits or dissolves calcium
carbonate. This pH value, denoted as pHs, is termed the 'saturation pH value' of the
water. Langelier's Index, I, is then determined as the numerical difference between the pH
of the water and its pHs, i.e.

          I = pH   -   pHs

When I is negative the water is liable to be corrosive. If I is positive the water will tend to
deposit calcium carbonate. If I is zero, then the water is in balance, being neither
aggressive to, nor tending to deposit a protective coating of calcium carbonate.
Consequently the main form of treatment for an aggressive water is to add chemicals to
the water, sufficient to produce a thin protective coating of solid calcium carbonate on
otherwise corrodible surfaces. The treatment must be continuous and usually consists of


Table   8.6 Relationship between alkalinity, equilibrium pH and dissolved carbon dioxide

Alkalinity as CaCO3 (mg/1)     25 50 75 100 125 150 175        200 250 300
pH at equilibrium, i.e. pHs     8.8 8.1 7.7 7.6 7.5  7.4  7.35   7.3  7.2  7.0
Free CO2 at equilibrium (mg/1) 0.0 1    2.5 4.5 7.5 12   18.5   27   32   60
410    Specialised and advanced water treatment processes


dosing of an alkali such as hydrated lime to ensure that the pH of the treated water is
maintained only slightly above the pHs value (i.e. Langelier's Index of about + 0.2 to 0.3),
the resulting deposition then being in the form of a smooth hard scale. If the water is over-
saturated with calcium bicarbonate, i.e. the pH value is significantly greater than pHs,
then precipitation of calcium carbonate takes place rapidly, producing an excessive
amount of the amorphous soft form of calcium carbonate, namely 'chalk'. Table 8.6 is a
useful practical guide for determining the saturation pH (pHs) of a water.



8.41     Corrosiveness of various w a t e r s
There are a wide variety of naturally occurring waters with different characteristics which
determine their aggressiveness to metals and concrete. The principal types of water
occurring are dealt with below.


Hard surface waters, with fairly high carbonate hardness
A large proportion of lowland river waters associated with sedimentary geological
formations have a substantially positive Langelier Index. Generally, therefore, such waters
are very satisfactory for the avoidance of corrosion of metals and they are not usually
plumbosolvent.


Hard underground waters with substantial carbonate hardness
The mineral composition of many underground waters from chalk, limestone and other
sedimentary formations may often be similar to that of many surface waters; but the carbon
dioxide content of the water is usually much higher, being near to, or above the amount
which is in equilibrium with the solid calcium carbonate. The excess carbon dioxide has
therefore to be removed, usually by aeration, to give a positive Langelier Index. But
although a water with a positive Index should, theoretically, deposit calcium carbonate, in
practice it will probably not do so to any appreciable extent in water mains or metal tanks.
Its anti-corrosion effect, however, probably depends in part upon the rapid deposition of
calcium carbonate on cathodic areas where electrochemical corrosion is initiated, the effect
being to stifle this type of incipient localised corrosion. Waters with fairly high carbonate
hardness due to calcium bicarbonate are plumbosolvent (see Section 8.14).


Underground waters with low carbonate hardness but high free carbon dioxide
Many small sources from some of the older geological formations, and some from gravel
wells and springs comprise waters of this type; although many of the gravel sources can
have a high non-carbonate hardness. Aeration can be adopted to reduce the carbon
dioxide content, and lime can be added to achieve a further reduction. If the water is
already hard it may be preferable to neutralise the free carbon dioxide by adding caustic
soda. This reagent is very soluble and thus can be administered as a small volume of a
strong solution. For the correction of the corrosive characteristics of very soft waters,
passage through a filter containing granular limestone may be useful.
                                                                   8.42 Dezincification    411


Soft waters from surface sources

Certain lake waters such as some in Scotland and north-east England give very pure
waters, with a low organic quality approaching that of an underground water, but not
containing any appreciable content of carbon dioxide. They are therefore almost neutral in
reaction, but many may also have a very low carbonate hardness, e.g. 10 mg/1 as CaCO3.
However from the point of view of corrosion protection, and of preventing plumbosolvent
action in particular, they need careful treatment (see Section 8.14). With some of these
waters an economical form of treatment is simply to add a small dose of lime which can
prove satisfactory. In cases where a greater amount of calcium carbonate hardness must be
added, dosing with carbon dioxide followed by dosing with lime or passing the water
through calcium carbonate filters will be adequate. Alternatively use of calcium carbonate
with soda ash or sodium bicarbonate may be convenient.
   The majority of surface waters derived from upland moorland catchments, however, are
coloured brown by peaty matter which contains organic humic and fulvic acids which give
the water an acid reaction with a pH of 6 or lower. To counter the general corrosiveness o f
this type of water and its plumbosolvent action, the organic acids do not merely require
neutralisation, but must be removed 9~ and this is usually achieved by chemical coagulation
followed by filtration. But if the coagulant aluminium sulphate is used, this actually
removes carbonate hardness, the carbonate or bicarbonate being converted to free carbon
dioxide. Hence lime should be added after filtration, and the carbon dioxide can then
usually be largely converted again to calcium bicarbonate (see Section 7.21).


8.42    Dezincification
Galvanised iron or steel is susceptible to corrosion by excess of free carbon dioxide which
dissolves the zinc, and to any waters in which the pH is excessively high, especially above
10 which may occur if the final treatment stage of a water is unsatisfactory. However, the
term 'dezincification' usually refers to the effect on alloys containing copper and zinc, i.e.
brass, when the zinc is dissolved out. If the corroded metal is cut and polished, the
dezincified part will show the typical colour of copper instead of the original brass.
However a particular form of this corrosion is called 'meringue' dezincification because of
the voluminous white layer of corrosion product which appears, the effect of which is to
cause failure of fittings, mainly hot water fittings when they are constructed of hot-pressed
brass. The effect, investigated by Turner 91 was found to occur with waters having a high
pH of over 8.2 and having a ratio of chloride to carbonate (temporary) hardness greater
than is shown in Table 8.7. These findings reinforce the need for the addition of carbonate
hardness to any very soft waters to reduce their aggressiveness to metals. If a water
contains an appreciable amount of chloride, then simply raising its pH without increasing


Table 8.7 Limiting values of chloride-to-alkalinity ratio (at pH values greater than 8.2) for
dezincification

Chloride (mg/1 as C1)           10       15      20          30       40       60         100
Alkalinity (mg/1 as CaCO3)      10       15      35          90      120      150         180
Chloride:alkalinity ratio       1:1      1:1     1:1.75      1:3     1:3      1:1.5       1:1.8
412    Specialised and advanced water treatment processes


its carbonate hardness may increase its liability to cause dezincification and may also fail
to control its corrosiveness towards other metals.



Desalination
8.43      Introduction
Desalination is a term used to describe processes used for the reduction of dissolved solids
in water, usually referred to as total dissolved solids (TDS) and measured in mg/1.
Sometimes conductivity is used as the measurement of total dissolved solids as it is easy to
measure in the field with a conductivity meter and is expressed as microSiemens per cm
(#S/cm). The SI units are milliSiemens per m. For most purposes the TDS value of a water
can be obtained by multiplying the conductivity value by 0.66, except in certain special
cases, e.g. mine waters. Natural waters may be classified in broad terms according to their
TDS values as follows.

Type of water                                                              TDS value (mg/1)
Sweet waters                                                                    0-1000
Brackish waters                                                              1000-5000
Moderately saline waters                                                     5000-10 000
Severely saline waters                                                     10 000-30 000
Seawater                                                                   Above 30 000



   Several methods have been commercially developed for the desalination of high TDS
waters and the selection of the correct process, especially in the 500-5000 rag/1 range,
requires careful evaluation of process efficiency, plant capital and running costs. As a
general guide, the most frequent application of the various desalination processes has been
in the following categories of TDS waters.

Process                                                                    TDS value (mg/1)
Ion exchange                                                               up to 500
Electrodialysis                                                               500-3000
Low-pressure reverse osmosis including nanofiltration                        1000-10 000
High-pressure reverse osmosis                                              10 000 and above
Distillation                                                               Above 30 000



   In terms of installed capacity, distillation accounts for about 75% of all desalination
installations, with the largest concentration of plant in the Middle East and North Africa.
In recent years, however, reverse osmosis systems have been developed for desalting
seawater and the installed capacity of such plants is steadily increasing.
  The use of freezing is theoretically capable of producing water free from saline
constituents, but it has not been adopted on a commercial scale and so it will not be dealt
with here. A review of desalination processes has been given by Wade et al. 92
                                                                                                                  8.45 Electrodialys&   413


8.44       Ion exchange
The use of ion-exchange processes for reducing mineral or saline constituents in water is
discussed in Section 8.10 where it is referred to as demineralisation instead of desalination.
Whilst the two terms are synonymous, the word demineralisation is used most often in
industry to describe the particular application of ion-exchange resins to remove some or
all of the mineral and saline salts in water. The use of ion exchange rarely finds application
for waters containing more than 1500 mg/1 of dissolved solids.


8.45       Electrodialysis
In this process a potential gradient is applied between electrodes and the ionic constituents
in the water are thus caused to migrate through semi-permeable membranes which are
selective to cations and anions, and demineralisation occurs in a series of cells separated by
alternate pairs of cation and anion membranes (see Fig. 8.6). A number of membrane pairs
can be installed parallel between a pair of electrodes to form a stack and several stacks can
be connected hydraulically together either in parallel or in series to increase output. The
reduction in dissolved solids obtained by electrodialysis is related to the electrical energy
input and therefore in practice to the cost of electricity. Electrodialysis membranes, like
reverse osmosis membranes, are prone to fouling and feed waters require pre-treatment.
   In the electrodialysis process the current flow is uni-directional and the demineralised
and concentrate compartments remain unchanged. Fouling and scaling material which
build up on the membranes are cleaned by taking units out of service. In electrodialysis
reversal (EDR), the electrical polarity is reversed periodically which results in a reversal of


                  Fresh water out

                                Flushing waterin )(brackish water)               .~
                            r        -,

                                                                                                                              !
                                + t
                                                                Memb'anes-~
                                +         -~-- -@
                                                                                       -QC::~-
                      LLI                                                                                --')'-                   iii
                                            tD
                      O         +           .~
                                                         x~
                                                          t~
                                                                                -~
                                                                                                   '~                             o
                      z                                                                            (1)                   --       "3"
                                                         0)
                                +
                                    Brine   ,-
                                            ~"   fresh   ,.
                                                         ~-    Brin~.           ,.-        Fresh   ,--      Brine -
                                            o            -9             !       o                  o

                                                                                              1
                                                                                                   o
                                 x                 *             a         \         ,.      ~,                   ~ll



                  grineto waste

                  saline (or brackish) water for desalination
A d.c. voltage is applied across a battery of cells. The anions in the saline (or brackish) water, induced by the e.m.f.
applied, pass through the anion-permeable membrane into the brine cells, but cannot pass the cation-permeable
membrane. Similarly the cations are also collected in the concentrate or brine compartments which discharge
to waste. The saline (or brackish) water in alternate chambers loses ions and reduces in salinity. A proportion of
the saline feed is directed to the concentrate (brine) compartments to flush out the brine.

Fig. 8.6 Principle of electrodialysis plant.
414    Specialised and advanced water treatment processes


ion movement and provides 'electrical flushing' of scale forming ions and fouling matter.
This self cleaning can help to reduce pre-treatment needs and allow operation of units at
higher levels of supersaturation of sparingly soluble salts thereby achieving higher water
recoveries.


8.46     Reverse osmosis and nanofiltration
In osmosis when a salt solution is separated from pure water by a semipermeable
membrane, the pure water flows across the membrane until the pressure on the pure water
side is equal to the osmotic pressure of the salt solution. In reverse osmosis (RO) by
applying a pressure greater than the osmotic pressure to the salt side, pure water can be
forced from the salt side across the semipermeable membrane. The osmotic pressure is
proportional to the TDS of the water and a pressure of at least twice the osmotic pressure
is required to achieve an economically feasible flow. In RO, separation is by diffusion
through a dense membrane. Nanofiltration (NF) follows the same principle but utilises a
micropore membrane. In both the processes a further mechanism of separation is by size
exclusion where larger sized solutes are physically prevented from passing through the
membrane. NF is a variation of the RO membrane process.
   RO rejects particles of size as small as 0.0001 #m whereas NF rejects particles of size
greater than 0.001 #m (1 nanometre) (see Fig. 7.18). As a consequence in NF rejection of
monovalent ions (Na +, K +, C1-) is poor (40-70%) whereas rejection of multivalent ions
(Ca 2 Mg 2 SO42-) is comparatively high (85-95%) 92 allowing the process to be used
for softening of hard waters. RO rejects all dissolved salts at an efficiency of 90-98%. A
comparison of nanofiltration and RO processes performance is illustrated by an example
in Table 8.8. The other applications of the process include the reduction of organic
compounds such as natural colour (see Section 8.37) disinfection by-products and
pesticides, turbidity, bacteria and virus. RO would provide the same treatment as NF but
more effectively and additionally give greater TDS removal. However because of the
greater tendency for fouling the use of RO is limited to desalination. Even with NF, pre-
treatment may be necessary to remove turbidity to prevent plugging of the membrane. In
NF the high passage of the monovalent ions gives rise to an osmotic back pressure (hence
lower A i r - see below) with a resulting operating pressure (typically 5-15 bar) much lower
than that for RO membranes (which may be up to 30 bar for brackish water and 70 bar for
sea water).
   The following equations give an approximate representation of the flow of water and
dissolved solids (solutes) through membranes:
         Qw = W p ( A p - ATr)

and
          Q, = K,,(,",c)

where Qw is the water flux through the membrane (m3/s.m2), Qs is the salt flux through the
membrane (kg/s.m 2) which is independent of pressure, Wp is the membrane permeability
coefficient for water (m3/N.s), Kp is the membrane permeability coefficient for salt (m/s),
Ap is the pressure differential across the membrane (N/m2), ATr is the osmotic pressure
differential across the membrane (N/m2), and AC is the concentration differential across
the membrane (kg/m3). Cellulose acetate membranes have water flux rates in the range
                                                   8.46 Reverse osmos& and nanofiltration      415


Table 8.8 A Comparison of NF and RO processes

Permeate flow:                       700 m3/day
Type:                                Single pass design
Water temperature:                   10~
Recovery:                            80%
Fouling allowance:                   15%
Inlet pressure:                      9.6 bar (NF); 10.5 bar (RO)
Concentrate pressure:                3.9 bar (NF); 4.8 bar (RO)
Type of membrane:                    Thin film composite (TFC) softening membranes for NF and
                                     ultra low pressure membranes for RO



                               CI
                                                   C2               Ca




                  F=Feed C=Concentrate P=Permeate


System arrangement:

Bank                    Tubes/Bank                  Elements/Tube                   Elements/Bank
                                                                                    24
                                                                                    12
                                                                                     6


System flows'

                                                                              Inlet
                                                                              pressure
                                     Total          Tube           Average    (bar)        Final
         Total feed     Tube feed    concentrate    concentrate    flux                    element
Bank     (m3/h)         (m3/h)       (m3/h)         (m3/h)         (1/m2.h)   NF    RO     (Beta) a

         36.5           9.1          17.2           4.3            26.2       8.4   9.1    1.108
         17.2           8.6          9.8            4.9            20.2       7.0   7.9    1.072
          9.8           9.8          7.3            7.3            13.6       5.7   6.6    1.030

                                                                                (Continued overleaf)
416   Spec&lised and advanced water treatment processes


Water quality (concentrations in mg/1):

                                            Nanofiltration (NF)       Reverse osmosis (RO)
Parameter                  Membrane feed    Concentrate   Permeate    Concentrate    Permeate
Calcium as Ca                  178             751.3         34.7         879.5         2.6
Magnesium as Mg                  9.4            39.7          1.8         46.4          0.1
Sodium as Na                    23.7            75.3         10.8        110.8          1.9
Potassium as K                   2.2             6.9          1.0         10.1          0.2
Bicarbonate as HCO3            459.4          1855.5        110.4       2248.7         12.3
Sulphate as SO4                 84.8           400.7          5.8        423.2          0.2
Chlorides as CI                 80.0           336.6         15.9        395.8          1.1
Silica as SiO2                  22.0            93.8          4.1        107.1          0.7
Carbon dioxide as CO2           96.9            96.9         96.9         96.9         96.7
Total dissolved solids         626.0          2617.1        128.3       3079.0         12.9
Hardness as CaCO3              483.2          2039.6         94.1       2387.7          7.1
pH                               7.0             7.6          6.4          7.7          5.4
Langelier index                 -0.04             1.9       -2.1            2.1        -5.2
Osmotic pressure (bar)            0.34            1.37        0.08          1.64        0.01

(a) Beta defines the degree of concentration polarisation which is equal to the ratio of the
concentration of salts at the membrane surface to that in the main body of the water and should
ideally be less than 1.13.
Source: Koch Membrane Systems, Fluid Systems, UK.



5  10 - 6 to 1  10 -5 m3/s.m 2 and for polyamide membrane rates are about one-tenth of
this range.
   The equations assist in understanding the basic criteria controlling the reverse osmosis
process. It can be seen that as the feed water pressure is increased water flux increases but
salt flux remains constant, i.e. both the quality and the quantity of the product, known as
the permeate, increase with a higher driving force. It is also evident that at constant
applied pressure the water flux decreases as the solute concentration of the feed is
increased. This is due to the reduction in the driving force caused by the higher feed
osmotic pressure. As more water is extracted (called water recovery) from a given feed, the
salt concentration in the bulk solution increases and, at constant applied pressure, the
water flux falls due to high local osmotic pressure. Higher water recovery also raises the
salt flux due to higher salt concentration in the bulk solution.
   The two most commonly used membrane configurations are hollow fine fibre and spiral
wound types (see Figs 8.7 and 8.8). The membranes are made from cellulose acetate and
their derivatives, polyamides and thin film composites. Hollow fine fibre membranes are
made from polyamides whilst the other materials are used in spiral wound membranes.
Cellulose acetate membranes can tolerate continuous exposure to residual chlorine up to
about 1.0 mg/1, but are sensitive to pH outside the range 4-6.5 and water temperatures
 > 30~     They are also susceptible to biodegradation. Polyamide membranes have no
tolerance towards chlorine or other oxidants, have a wider pH operating range (pH 4-9)
and are not degraded by bacteria. Thin film composites are also sensitive to chlorine.
                                                         8.46 Reverse osmosis and nanofiltration               417

                   Concentrate         Porousdistributor                         Desalinated
                   discharge           tube                                      discharge

To waste F///j /                                   ,,,                              \



                         '   oC~          o               O~Oo(,.~.o ~            ~ ~~//jwater
                                                                                         PrOduct~ x ~~ ~~, o o o/
Feed     ~
          P'//A
          r
                   oooooo
                       o
                          o o:o                   Old             oo                    .
                                                                    Villi/iliA



                     /             "                 \                                                Cross-
                    Hollow fibre                         Fibresheldin place                           section
                    osmoticmembranes                     byopenscreens
Fig. 8.7 Hollow fibre type of reverse osmosis membrane.




Fig. 8.8 Spiral wound reverse osmosis membrane.



   The design bases for an RO plant are feed water quality and the required permeate
water quality and output. In brackish water desalination, the high salt rejection allows
high blending ratios and therefore smaller RO plants. In seawater desalination the high
TDS of the feed precludes blending. The temperature of the feed water has a significant
influence on the capacity of the membrane; for example I~ rise in temperature can
increase the flux by about 2.5-3%. However feed water temperatures consistently higher
than the rated temperature for the membrane can have a detrimental effect on the
membrane. A high temperature combined with high operating pressure may result in
418   Specialised and advanced water treatment processes


membrane compaction which would give a superior salt rejection but reduced output.
Another parameter that affects the output is concentration polarisation. This is the effect
of increased concentration of salts along the surface of the membrane in a stagnant
boundary layer. This results in a reduction of output and an increase in the risk of
precipitation of sparingly soluble salts on the membrane surface. This phenomenon can be
reduced by maintaining a turbulent flow across the membrane surface at all feed flows.
   The salt-rejection properties of a membrane can be varied by a membrane manufacturer
so as to produce high salt-rejection and low flux rates or, alternatively, low salt-rejection
and high flux rates. In practice, salt rejections of up to 90% can be achieved for brackish
waters with most commercial membranes. Seawater desalination is carried out by using
high-pressure reverse osmosis membranes operating at pressures between 55-70 bar with
salt removal efficiencies greater than 99%. The recovery ratio or water conversion factor
(i.e. permeate flow divided by membrane feed flow) can vary from 35 to 45%. Such higher
salt rejections can be achieved by using a multi-pass system where the permeate from the
preceding pass is the feed to the subsequent pass.
   In seawater applications the high pressure and flow of the reject stream allow energy
recovery. Typical energy consumption of a seawater reverse osmosis plant can be reduced
by about 30% by connecting a recovery turbine to the reject stream.
   Modern membranes are continually improving with longer life and robustness,
nevertheless their performance can be significantly affected by fouling due to the presence
of materials such as turbidity, organic compounds, silica, iron, manganese, and sparingly
soluble salts in the feed water. Some degree of pre-treatment upstream of a membrane
process is therefore necessary and depends on the contaminants present in the water. Most
ground waters do not require pre-treatment except when iron, manganese, silica or
turbidity is present. Surface and sea waters often require chlorination, coagulation,
clarification, filtration (usually anthracite-sand) and GAC adsorbers. Sea water is
sometimes drawn from beach wells, seabed filtration systems or horizontal gallery beach
collection systems and therefore have lower turbidity which reduces the pre-treatment
requirements. Pre-treatment requirements for NF need not be so extensive. In some
instances microfiltration or ultrafiltration are used in the pre-treatment of RO feed. The
objective of the pre-treatment is to eliminate the risk of membrane fouling which is
measured by several indices of which the Silt Density Index is the most widely used.
Typical SDI values for NF and RO are less than 3 and 2, respectively. 93
    RO and NF are concentration processes and therefore water recovery is affected by the
presence of sparingly soluble salts such as the carbonates and sulphates of calcium. With
increasing water recovery the concentrations of sulphates and carbonates of calcium in the
bulk solution also increase. When the products of their molar concentrations exceed the
solubility product, they precipitate and plug the membranes. Therefore salt precipitation
may be prevented by limiting the recoveries to that allowable, just before the limiting salt
precipitates. In sea water desalination calcium sulphate precipitation is prevented by
limiting the water recovery to less than 45%. It is not economical to control calcium
carbonate scaling by limiting water recovery. This is usually controlled by sulphuric acid
treatment. Alternatively antiscalents such as sodium hexametaphosphate or other
commercially available antiscalents are used to complex the metal ions (usually calcium)
 and prevent precipitation. They may be used in conjunction with acid. Usually, for
 brackish waters with pre-treatment of the feed, it is possible to recover about 75% of feed
 as permeate, although recoveries of up to 90% can be achieved with multistage systems in
                                               8.46 Reverse osmos& and nanofiltration                    419

which the concentrate from each stage feeds successive stages. Any residual chlorine in the
feed to the membranes should also be partially or totally dechlorinated by sodium
bisulphite depending on the membrane material, and the feed is finally passed through
5 #m cartridge filters. Sometimes total dechlorination is achieved by passing through
GAC contactors. A flow schematic of a typical sea water RO plant is given in Fig. 8.9.
   Salt rejection and flux of membranes will deteriorate with time and manufacturers'
warranty of the membranes for 3-5 years may be qualified by various operating criteria
and cleaning requirements. Cleaning is by chemical agents which are effective for the
removal of calcium carbonate scale and organic solutes. Iron, manganese, and turbidity
are impossible to clean from the membrane surface. NF and RO membranes cannot be
backwashed. Chemical cleaning is usually recommended by the membrane manufacturer
as a standard procedure, but full recovery is not possible if the membranes are subjected to
continual abuse.
   The permeate from membrane processes are devoid of alkalinity, usually acidic (pH 5.5-
6.9) and is very aggressive (see Table 8.8). It should be remineralised to contain a
minimum alkalinity of 75 mg/1 as CaCO3. A positive Langelier Index value should also be
achieved. The treatment methods include- hydrated lime and carbon dioxide dosing;
carbon dioxide dosing followed by filtration through limestone (note: saturation pH
cannot be exceeded; therefore should be followed by lime dosing); sodium bicarbonate and
calcium chloride dosing (note: high chloride to alkalinity ratio is unsuitable for duplex


                                                Dechlorination
                                                 (essentialto
                                             preservemembrane)
                                 Polyelectrolyte      |                     Acidfor scale
            Chiorinel iu
                  Con lant
                           }~_[,~~
                              "~" 1 ~"~""lj            ~,-
                                                       [l~
                                                                      I 0 c~176
                                                                      I                        to-
       O
    Seawater
     pump
                 ,v
                                 Sand/anthracite
                                  pressurefilters
                                                       il--
                                                         Buffertank Repump Cartridge
                                                       t2nd stage           filters
                                                       I brinerecycle --,
     Chlorine Lime                          "- <       [
                                                       ,              -"            '
                   -                                                  I--       '          '     r




                       Decarbonator                            (~     t                   (~
                                                   2nd stage          tl       lststage Repump
           By-passprovidedbecause                  R.O.plant          t        R.O.plant   ~.
           it is not necessaryto                                      I                              t
           desalinatetotal 1st                Productby-pass ( " 0 ~                      Turbineforj
           stageoutput                                                                  energyrecovery
                                                                    t To waste
Fig. 8.9 Reverse osmosis desalination plant for seawater.
420    Spec&lised and advanced water treatment processes


brass fittings); or blending with a suitable brackish water source. 94 Sources of carbon
dioxide include liquid CO2, on site production by combustion of propane or distillation
plant by recovery from the air ejectors. Seawater itself cannot be used for blending with
distilled water as it does not contain a sufficiently high ratio of alkalinity to salt to permit
this.
   Although membrane processes are very effective in the removal of bacteria and virus,
the water should be chlorinated before distribution.
   The reject stream, known as the concentrate, contains a high concentration of salts and
can amount to a large flow. Disposal is a significant problem for both inland and seaboard
installations, as mentioned in the next section.



8.47     Thermal processes
Distillation works on the principle that the vapour produced by evaporating seawater is
free from salt and the condensation of the vapour yields pure water. The majority of plants
use the multistage flash thermal process (MSF), but other processes used are horizontal
tube multiple effect plants (HTME), multiple effect distillation using vertical, enhanced
surface heat exchange tubing (VTE), and vapour compressing evaporators (VCE). Most
large thermal distillation plants are constructed as dual purpose stations for both
desalination and the generation of power. The trend towards higher operating
temperatures means that greater attention has to be paid to the reduction of corrosion
and the use of cost-effective materials and chemicals to combat corrosion.
   Effluents from desalination processes have a higher density than seawater from the
concentration of total dissolved solids to about double that of seawater. In addition the
effluents also contain corrosion products (distillation processes), e.g. copper, zinc, iron,
nickel and aluminium and any additives, e.g. corrosion inhibitors (distillation process) and
sequestering agents. Distillation process effluents also have elevated temperatures.
Disposal of such hot, hypersaline waters may give rise to adverse ecological effects on
the environment. The use of a long sea outfall provided with discharge ports designed to
achieve designated initial dilution of the effluent, followed by subsequent tidal dispersion
makes it possible to meet a predetermined water quality criteria. It is usually necessary to
carry out studies at each site to enable prediction of dispersal. For land installations
deepwell injection, evaporation ponds, and discharge to sewer are options which have been
adopted.
   One of the major design parameters for all thermal desalters is the performance ratio
which is, in effect, a measure of the efficiency of energy utilisation. The amount of energy
required to desalt a given brine concentration varies according to the degree of
sophistication of the plant installed, i.e. annual energy costs reduce as capital costs
increase. Other factors to be taken into account include size of units, load factor, growth
of demand, interest rate on capital and technical matters concerning the auxiliary services,
repairs, and maintenance. For detailed design something in the order of 70 design
parameters have to be settled. Many of these are concerned with the safe or most economic
limits for the temperatures, velocities and concentrations of the coolants, brines, brine
vapour, steam, steam condensate and boiler feedwater, with particular reference to the
prevention of scaling, corrosion, erosion, the purity of the distillate, the efficiency of heat
exchangers and the nature and cost of the auxiliary plant involved.
                                                         8.49 Removal of radionuclides     421


   Distilled water approaches zero hardness with an alkalinity not likely to exceed 2 mg/1.
It is aggressive to metal and asbestos cement pipes and will take up calcium from mortar-
lined pipes. It is unsuitable for distribution and is unpalatable, being flat and insipid. To
remedy these deficiencies the distilled water should be remineralised (see Section 8.46).
   Major problems which can occur with seawater evaporators are: scale formation on
heat transfer surfaces due to the presence of carbonates and sulphates of calcium; internal
corrosion due to hot sodium chloride and the presence of dissolved gases such as oxygen,
ammonia, and hydrogen sulphide; plant start-up problems and running at low capacity.




8.48     The costs of desalination
The subject of desalination costs can be discussed only cursorily because of its diversity
and complexity. The purpose of this brief review is therefore to indicate the principal items
contributing to the production costs of desalinated water and to point out how these are
likely to be influenced by local conditions. The major factors to be considered in any
desalting application i n c l u d e - type and characteristics of the saline feed; type of
desalination process to be used; local costs of primary energy source (e.g. oil or gas or
electricity); availability and costs of chemicals needed for feed pre-treatment, product
conditioning and plant cleaning. Also important, in the case of distillation plants, is the
choice of performance ratio and whether dual purpose operation is proposed (Section
8.47). Except for the smallest plants, staffing costs are not usually a major item. Table 8.9
summarises the principal cost contributory factors of the three main desalination processes
currently popular (1999) as applied to single purpose plants (i.e. producers of water only).
In the case of brackish waters (as defined in Section 8.43) the primary energy and power
demands are usually less than half those for seawater desalination, whether electrodialysis
or reverse osmosis is used. Thermal processes, including vapour compression, are not
usually adopted for brackish water desalting because of their unfavourable energy
demands. The feed water and chemical consumption of brackish water desalination are
also only about one-third of those for seawater reverse osmosis.
   The costs of desalted water are very variable and site specific. Amortisation of the initial
capital investment, together with energy costs, usually accounts for up to 80% of the total
water cost. The energy components can be calculated from the data in Table 8.9 if local
primary energy unit costs are known. Only the briefest indication of capital costs can be
given in the present context for the larger sizes of the four major types of desalination
plant listed in Table 8.9. Plant costs, erected and commissioned, including typical costs of
civil works, local product storage, and all other site-specific costs (such as cost of intake,
discharge of effluents, fuels storage and handling, etc.) in early 1999 were as given in Table
8.10 below. 95 Typical water costs are for large desalination plant operating at base load
and assuming an energy cost of s per barrel of fuel oil.
   In the case of reverse osmosis and mechanical vapour compression plants, it is assumed
that power can be taken from the grid supply or some other source. For brackish water the
capital costs of desalination plants are much lower due to the smaller number and cost of
membranes and other equipment.
Table 8.9   Cost contributory factors for major types of seawater desalination processes

                                                                                                                                       Annual cost of
                                                                    Components of                                                      spares and
                       Usual maximum        Total primary           energy demand             Chemical          Feedwater              replacements as
                       size of unit to date fuel energy
                       (m3/day)             demand (MJ/m 3) (a) Power (kWh/m 3) Heat (MJ/m 3) consumptiOn(g/m3) consumptiOn(m3/m
                                                                                                                         3)      cost
                                                                                                                                 % OfofinitialdesalterCapital
Process
Multistage flash  32 000                     120-400                3-4                 185-300          4-6            5-10           2%
evaporation (MSF)
Mechanical vapour   1500                      88-130                8-12                  0-60 (b)       5-7            2.0-2.5        2-4%
compression (MVC)
Seawater reverse    6000-30 000               45-65                 4-6                Nil              10-20           3-4            4-6%
osmosis (SWRO)
Brackish water      3000-20 000               22-33                 2-3                Nil               6-12           1.2-1.5        4-6%
reverse osmosis
(BWRO)

Notes.
Data refer to stand-alone plants. Heat and power assumed generated on site.
Thermal efficiencies assumed: 80% for steam boilers for MSF plant; 33% for diesel generators for RO and MVC plant.
Higher energy value of diesel fuel taken as 37.85 MJ per litre.
1 MJ = 0.278 k W h .
(a) Lower value for dual purpose plant.
(b) Dependent upon heat recovered from jacket of diesel plant.
Table updated by Mott MacDonald.
                                                              8.49 Removal of radionuclides      423


Table 8.10   Capital and operating costs for large desalination plants

                                                Plant capital cost             Water cost
Type of plant                                   (s per m3/day output)          (s per m 3 produced)
Multistage flash evaporation plant              1000-1500                      0.70-0.80
Mechanical vapour compression plant             1200-1600                      0.50-0.60
Reverse osmosis plant (seawater)                 400-500                       0.30-0.40
Reverse osmosis plant (brackish water)           900-1200                      0.50-0.60


Radionuclides
8.49     Removal of radionuclides
An introduction to radionuclides in water was given in Section 6.38. Radon is a water
soluble gas primarily found in ground waters. It is effectively removed by aeration. Test
work carried out on various aeration methods have shown packed tower aerators (see
Section 8.19) to be the most efficient with removal efficiencies of the order of 98%, closely
followed by diffused air system (see Section 8.22). The removal in a spray aerator (see
Section 8.20) was limited to less than 7 5 % . 96 For a packed tower the packing height is
about 3 m with a surface loading rate of about 75 m3/h.m 2. The packed tower
performance was found not to be influenced by air to water flow ratio. 96 Packed towers
also remove carbon dioxide thus affecting the carbonate-bicarbonate equilibrium leading
to scaling of the packing. GAC adsorbers are also known to remove radon but not as
effectively as aeration.
   The removal of particulate or soluble radionuclides in water can be achieved by
coagulation using iron or aluminium salts followed by solid-liquid separation (uranium,
radium and/3-particles), lime softening (uranium and radium), anion exchange (uranium),
cation exchange (radium), or mixed-bed ion exchange (/3-particles). 51'97 Strong base anion
exchange resin of the chloride form has a high exchange capacity for uranium particularly
in low sulphate waters 98 and strong acid cation exchange resins are used for radium
removal. 99 Both the resins are regenerated with sodium chloride.
   Table 8.11 summarises the treatment methods that can be effectively applied for the
removal of radionuclides. 1~176

Table 8.11 Treatment methods for radionuclides removal from drinking water and their efficiencies

Radon                            Radium                          Uranium
                   %                                %                                      %
Method             Efficiency    Method             Efficiency   Method                    Efficiency
Aeration:
-packed tower      up to 99+    Ion exchange        81-99        Ion exchange              90-100
-diffused air      up to 99 +   Reverse osmosis     90-95 +      Lime softening            85-99
- spray            70-95 +      Lime softening      80-92        Reverse osmosis           90-99
GAC contactor      62-99 +      Electrodialysis     90           Coagulation-filtration    80-98
                                Ra complexing       90-99        Activated alumina         90
                                Greensand           25-50
                                MnO2 filter         90

Note. Highest efficiencies of some treatment methods are for small capacity domestic units.
424           Special&ed and advanced water treatment processes


  In the treatment plant the radionuclides become concentrated in waste streams and need
careful disposal. US EPA have suggested disposal alternatives based on the concentration
of radionuclides in the waste stream. These include disposal of liquid wastes to
watercourses, sewer, or deep injection wells, and treatment by evaporation or precipitation
with disposal of solid wastes (dewatered sludges) to various types of landfill facilities. 1~



References
     van Dijk, J. C. and Wilms D. A. Water Treatment without Waste M a t e r i a l -
     Fundamentals and State of the Art of Pellet Softening. J Water SRT-Aqua, 40(5),
     1991, pp. 263-280.
     van der Veen C. and Graveland A. Central Softening by Crystalisation in a Fluidised-
      .




     Bed Process. JA WWA, 80(6), 1988, pp. 51-58.
     van Honwelingen G. A. and Nooijen W. F. J. M. Water Softening by Crystallization.
     European Water Pollution Control, 3(4), 1994, pp. 33-35.
     van Eekeren M. W. M. et al. Improved Milk-of-Lime for Softening of Drinking
      .




     W a t e r - the Answer to the Carry-over Problem. J Water SRT-Aqua 43(1), 1994,
     pp. 1-10.
     Envrad M. et al. Effects and Consequences of Electric Treatment in Preventing
     Scaling of Drinking Water Systems. J Water SRT-Aqua, 46(2), 1997, pp. 71-83.
     Curry M. D. and Reynolds M. Using By-Products of an Iron Removal Process to
          .




     Improve Water Treatment. JA WWA, 75(5), 1983, pp. 246.
     Knocke W. R. et al. Kinetics of Manganese and Iron Oxidation by Potasssum
          .




     Permanganate and Chlorine Dioxide. JA WWA, 83(6), 1991, pp. 80-87.
     Faust S. D. and Aly O. M. Chemistry of Water Treatment, 2nd edn. Ann Arbor Press,
          .




     Michigan, 1998.
     Barnhoorn D. et al. The Treatment of Ferruginous Groundwaters for River 33
          .




     Augmentation in the Waller's Haven, East Sussex. JIWES, 38(3) 1984, pp. 217-230.
 10. Knocke W. R. Removal of Soluble Manganese by Oxide-Coated Filter Media:
     Sorption Rate and Removal Mechanism Issues. JA WWA, 83(8), 1991, pp. 64-69.
 11. Benfield L. D. et al. Process Chemistry for Water and Wastewater Treatment.
     Prentice-Hall, New Jersey, 1982, p. 476
 12. Merkle R. B. et al. Dynamic Model for Soluble Mn 2 Removal by Oxide-Coated
     Filter Media. J Environmental Engineering, ASCE, 123(7), July 1997, pp. 650-658
 13. Knocke W. R. et al. Alternative Oxidants for the Removal of Soluble Iron and
     Manganese. AWWA Research Foundation, Denver, Colorado, 1990.
 14. Rittmann B. E. et al. Biological Treatment of Public Water Supplies. CRC Critical
     Reviews, 19(2), 1989.
 15. Mouchet P. From Conventional to Biological Removal of Iron and Manganese in
     France. JA WWA, 84(4), 1992, pp. 158-167.
 16. Bourgine F. P. et al. Biological Processes at Saints Hill Water Treatment Plant, Kent.
     JIWEM, 8(4), 1994, pp. 379-392.
 17. Waterton T. Manganese Deposits in Distribution Systems. Proc SWTE, 3, 1954, p.
      117.
 18. Committee Report on: A Review of Solid Solution Interactions and Implications for
     Controlling Trace Inorganic Materials. JA WWA, 80(10), 1988, pp. 56-64.
                                                                     References   425


19. Edwards M. Chemistry of Arsenic: Removal During Coagulation and Fe-Mn
    Oxidation. JA WWA, 86(9), 1994, pp. 65-78.
20. Degremont. Water Treatment Handbook, 6th edn. Lavoisier, Paris, 1991, (a) p. 1331;
    (b) p. 1219.
21. Mouchet P. Potable Water Treatment in Tropical Countries: Recent Experience and
    Some Technological Trends. Aqua 3, 1984, pp. 143-164.
22. Azizian F. Private Communication, 1999.
23. Simms J. and Azizian F. Pilot-Plant Trials on the Removal of Arsenic from Potable
    Water Using Activated Alumina. A WWA Water Technology Conference, Denver,
    Colorado, November 1998.
24. Pontius, F. W. (ed.) Water Quality and Treatment. AWWA, McGraw-Hill, New
    York, 1990, p. 617.
25. Waypa J. J. et al. Arsenic Removal by RO and NF membranes. JA WWA, 89(10),
    1997, pp. 102-114.
26. Driehans W. et al. Granular Ferric Hydroxide- A New Adsorbent for the Removal
    of Arsenic from Natural Water. J Water SRT-Aqua, 47(1), 1998, pp. 30-35.
27. Galvin R. M. Occurrence of Metals in Waters: An Overview. Water SA, 22(1), 1996,
    pp. 7-18.
28. Leroy P. Lead in Drinking W a t e r - Origins; Solubility; Treatment. J Water SRT-
    Aqua, 42(4), 1993, pp. 223-238.
29. Schock M. and Oliphant R. J. The Corrosion and Solubility of Lead in Drinking
    Water, Internal Corrosion of Water Distribution Systems, 2nd edn. AWWA Research
    Foundation, Denver, Colorado, 1996, Chapter 4.
30. Sheiham I. and Jackson P. J. The Scientific Basis for Control of Lead in Drinking
    Water by Water Treatment. JIWES, 35(6), 1981, pp. 491-515.
31. Boireau J. et al. Lead in Water Treatment and Advances in Lead Pipe Replacement
    and Relining Techniques. Water Supply, 16(1/2), Madrid, 1998, pp. 599-609.
32. Schock M. R. and Clement J. A. Lead and Copper Control with Non-Zinc
    Orthophosphate. JNEWWA, (3), 1998, pp. 20-41.
33. Hayes C. R. et al. Meeting Standards for Lead in Drinking Water. JCIWEM, 11(4),
    1997, pp. 257-264.
34. Colling J. H. et al. Plumbosolvency Effects and Control in Hard Waters. JIWEM,
    6(3), 1992, pp. 259-268.
35. Nawlakhe W. G. Defluoridation of Water by Nalgonda Technique. Indian J Environ
    Health, 17, 26, 1975.
36. Shoeman J. J. et al. An Evaluation of the Activated Alumina Process for Fluoride
    Removal from Drinking Water and Some Factors Affecting Its Performance. Water
    SA, 11(1), 1985, pp. 25-32.
37. Maier F. J. Defluoridation of Water Supplies. JAWWA, 45(8), 1953, pp. 879-888.
38. Adikari A. I. T. et al. A Low Cost Defluoridation Method for Rural Water Supplies.
    J Geological Soc Sri Lanka, 1, 1988.
39. Commins B. T. Controlling Fluoride Levels. WHO Report PEP/85.12.
40. Code of Practice on Technical Aspects of Fluoridation of Water Supplies. HMSO,
    London 1987.
41. Notes on Water Pollution, Department of the Environment (UK), Note No. 61; June
    1973.
426   Specialised and advanced water treatment processes


 42. Van der Kroon G. M. and Schram A. H. Weir Aeration - Part 1: Single Free Fall,
     H20.22(2), 1969, pp. 528-537.
 43. Irving, S. J. In-stream Aeration of Polluted Waters. Water and Waste Treatment, 17,
     1974.
 44. David J. M. Destratification of Reservoirs - A Design Approach for Perforated-Pipe
     Compressed Air Systems. Water Services, August 1980.
 45. Croll B. T. Nitrate Removal Using Ion-Exchange: Brass Corrosion Considerations.
     IWEM Yearbook, London, 1991.
 46. Clifford D. and Liu X. Biological Denitrification of Spent Regenerant Brine Using a
     Sequencing Batch Reactor. Water Research, 29(9), 1993, pp. 1477-1484.
 47. Rice R. P. and Netzer A. (eds). Handbook Ozone Technology and Applications, Vol. II.
     Butterworth, Oxford, 1984, p. 99.
 48. Short C. S. Removal of Ammonia from River Water. TP101, The Water Research
     Centre (UK), July 1973.
 49. Richard Y. et al. Study of the Nitrification of Surface Water. Prog Wat Tech, 10(5/6),
     1978, pp. 17-32.
 50. Nauleau F. et al. Ammonia Removal by Biological Nitrification on Conventional
     Sand Filters as a Specific Stage of Treatment. IWSA Conference on Inorganic
     Nitrogen Compounds and Water Supply, Hamburg, 27-29 Nov. 1991.
 51. Bablon G. et al. Developing a Sand-GAC Filter to Achieve High-Rate Biological
     Filtration. JA WWA 80(12), 1988.
 52. Mouchet P. Private Communication, 1995.
 53. Lacamp B. et al. Advanced Nitrogen Removal Processes for Drinking and
     Wastewater Treatment. Water Science and Technology, 22(3), 1990.
 54. Janda V. and Rudovsky J. Removal of Ammonia in Drinking Water by Biological
     Nitrification. J Water SRT-Aqua, 43(3), 1994, pp. 120-125.
 55. Booker N. A. et al. Removal of Volatile Organics in Groundwater. Water Research
     Centre, UK June 1988.
 56. Hess A. F. et al. Control Strategy- Aeration Treatment Technique- Occurrence and
     Removal of VOCs from Drinking Water. AWWA Research Foundation, Denver,
     Colorado, 1983.
 57. Kavanaugh M. C. and Russell R. R. Design of Air Stripping Towers to Remove
     Volatile Contaminants from Drinking Water. Aqua, 6, 1980, pp. 118-125.
 58. Foster D. M. et al. New Treatment Process for Pesticides and Chlorinated Organics
     Control in Drinking Water. J I W E M , 5(4), 1991, pp. 466-477.
 59. Dyksen J. et al. Operating Experience at VOC Treatment Facilities, Part 1: GAC
     Opflow; A WWA, 25(1), 1999, pp. 11-12.
 60. Glaze W. H. Drinking Water Treatment with Ozone. Environmental Science and
      Technology, 21(3), 1987, pp. 224-230.
 61. White G. C. Handbook of Chlorination, 3rd edn. Van Nostrand Reinhold, New York,
      1992.
 62. Terashima K. Reduction of Musty Odour Substances in Drinking W a t e r - A Pilot
     Plant Study. Water Science and Technology, 20(8/9), 1988, pp. 275-279.
 63. Ferguson D. W. et al. Comparing 'Peroxone' and Ozone for Controlling Taste and
      Odour Compounds. Disinfection By-products, and Micro-organisms. J A W W A
      80(4), 1990, pp. 181-191.
                                                                       References   427


64. Duquet J. P. et al. New Advances in Oxidation Processes: The Use of Ozone/
    Hydrogen Peroxide Combination for Micropollutant Removal in Drinking Water.
     Water Supply 7(4), 1989, pp. 115-124.
65. Gauntlet R. B. and Packham R. F. The Use of Powdered Activated Carbon in Water
    Treatment. Proc Conf on Activated Carbon in Water Treatment, Reading, Water
    Research Association, Medmenham, England, 1973.
66. Huang W. J. Powdered Activated Carbon for Organic Removal from Polluted Raw
    Water in Southern Taiwan. J Water SRT-Aqua, 44(6), 1995, pp. 275-283.
67. Najm I. M. et al. Using Powdered Activated Carbon: A Critical Review. JA W W A ,
    81(1), 1991, pp. 65-76.
68. Monscwitz J. T. and Ainsworth L. D. Treatment of Hydrogen Sulphide. JA W W A ,
    66(9), 1974, pp. 537-539.
69. Haist-Gulde B. and Baldauf G. Removal of Pesticides by Powdered Activated
    C a r b o n - Practical Aspects. Water Supply, 14(2), Amsterdam, 1996, pp. 201-208.
70. Dussert B. W. et al. Impact of Preozonation on Granular Activated Carbon
    Properties. Water Supply, 13(3/4), Osaka, 1995, pp. 7-11.
71. Pilard G. et al. Impact of Mineral Elements on the Regeneration Process of Activated
    Carbon Used in Potable Water Treatment. Water Supply, 13(3/4), Osaka, 1995,
    pp. 1-6.
72. Paillard H. et al. Technologies Available to Upgrade Potable Waterworks for
    Triazines Removal. IWEM Scientific Section, Pesticide Symposium, London, 11-12
    April 1990.
73. Smith D. J. et al. Activated Carbon in Water Treatment. Water Supply, 14(2),
    Amsterdam, 1996, pp. 85-98.
74. Langlais B. et al. (ed.). Ozone in Water Treatment- Application and Engineering.
    AWWA Research Foundation, Lewis Publishers, Colorado, 1991, p. 290.
75. Graveland A. Application of Biological Activated Carbon Filtration at Amsterdam
    Water Supply. Water Supply, 14(2), Amsterdam, 1996, pp. 233-241.
76. Armenter J. L. L. and Canto J. Filtration by GAC and On-site Regeneration in the
    Treatment of Water for the City of Barcelona. Review of 15 Years in Operation.
    Water Supply, 14(2), Amsterdam, 1996, pp. 119-127.
77. Bauer M. et al. The GAC/Slow Sand Filter S a n d w i c h - From Concept to
    Commissioning. Water Supply, 14(2), Amsterdam, 1996, pp. 159-175.
78. Rice R. P. and Netzer A. (eds). Handbook of Ozone Technology and Applications, Vol.
    II. Butterworth Publishers (1984), p. 151.
79. Dugnet J. P. et al. Improvement in the Effectiveness of Ozonation of Drinking Water
    through the use of Hydrogen Peroxide. Ozone." Science and Engineering, 7, 1985.
80. Mouchet P. and Capon B. Recent Evolution in Drinking Water Treatment
    Technology. Extract Revue Travaux, Degremont, July/August 1991.
81. Paillard H. et al. Removal of Nitrogonous Pesticides by Direct and Radical Type
    Ozonation. EC Annual Conference on Micropollution, May 1990, Lisbon.
82. Paillard H. et al. Application of Oxidation by a Combined Ozone/Ultraviolet
    Radiation System to the Treatment of Natural Water. Ozone." Science and
    Engineering, 4, 1987.
83. Bourgine F. et al. Treatment of Pesticides by UV photolysis. Techniques, Sciences,
    Methodes, 92(7/8), 1992, pp. 23-29.
428   Specialised and advanced water treatment processes


 84. Hall S. et al. Coagulation of Organic Colour with Hydrolysing Coagulants. JA WWA,
     57(9), 1965, p. 1149.
 85. Rook J. J. Haloforms in Drinking Water. JA WWA, 68(3), 1976, p. 168.
 86. Merry A. et al. Membrane Treatment of Coloured Water. Proc of International
     Symposium of Wastewater Treatment and 7th Workshop on Drinking Water,
     Montreal, Canada, November 1995.
 86. Jarvis M. G. and Hedges M. R. Use of soil maps to predict the incidence of corrosion
     and the need for mains renewal. JIWEM, Feb. 1994, pp. 68-75.
 87. Tiller A. K. Corrosion induced by bacteria. The Public Health Engineer, 12(3), 1984.
 88. Cox C. R. Operation and Control of Water Treatment Processes. WHO Geneva, 1964
     p. 203.
 89. Miles G. D. J Soc Chem Indust, 67, 1948, p. 10.
 90. Turner M. E. D. The influence of water composition on dezincification of Duplex
     brass fittings. JSWTE, 10, 1961, p. 162 and 14, 1965, p. 81.
 92. Wade N. and Calister K. Desalination: The State of the Art. JCIWEM, 11(4), 1997,
     pp. 87-97.
 93. Mallevialle J. (Ed.), Water T r e a t m e n t - Membrane Processes. AWWA Research
     Foundation, McGraw Hill, New York, 1996, pp. 94-96.
 94. Applegate I. Y. Posttreatment of reverse osmosis product waters. JA WWA, 78(5)
     1986, pp. 59-65.
 95. Private communications from N. M. Wade, Mott Ewbank Preece.
 96. Dixon K. L. et al. Evaluating Aeration Technology for Radon Removal. JAWWA,
     83(4), 1991, pp. 141-148.
 97. US Environmental Protection Agency, National Primary Drinking Water Regula-
     tions; Radionuclides; Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, Fed. Reg. 56:
     138(40) CFR Parts 141 and 142, July 1991.
 98. Zhang Z. and Clifford D. A. Exhausting and Regenerating Resins for Uranium
     Removal. JA WWA, 86(4), 1994, pp. 228-241.
 99. Snoeyink V. L. et al. Strong Acid Ion Exchange for Removing Barium, Radium and
     Hardness. J A W W A , 79(8), 1987, pp. 66-72.
100. Parrotta M. J. Radioactivity in Water Treatment Wastes: A USEPA Perspective.
     JA WWA, 83(4), 1991, pp. 134-140.
101. Committee Report: Research Needs for Inorganic Contaminants, JA WWA, 85(5),
      1993, pp. 106-112.
                                            9
             Disinfection of water

9.1      Disinfectants available
The term 'disinfection' is used to mean the destruction of infective organisms in water to
such low levels that no infection of disease results when the water is used for domestic
purposes including drinking. The term 'sterilisation' is not strictly applicable because it
implies the destruction of all organisms within a water and this may be neither achievable
nor necessary. Nevertheless the word is often loosely used, as in 'domestic water
sterilisers'.
   On a plant scale the following disinfectants are in common use:
(1)   chlorine (C12);
(2)   chloramines (NH2C1, NHCla);
(3)   chlorine dioxide (C102);
(4)   ozone (O3).
For small plants or special circumstances the following may be used:
(5) ultra-violet radiation;
(6) products releasing chlorine, e.g. calcium hypochlorite (chloride of lime) (Ca(OC1)2),
    sodium hypochlorite (NaOC1), chlorine tablets.
The organisms in water which it may be necessary to kill by disinfection include bacteria,
bacterial spores, viruses, protozoa and protozoa cysts, worms and larvae. The efficacy of
disinfection depends on numerous f a c t o r s - the type of disinfectant used, the amount
applied and the time for which it is applied; the type and numbers of organisms present;
and the physical and chemical characteristics of the water.


Chlorine and chloramine processes of disinfection
9.2      Action of chlorine
The precise action by which chlorine kills bacteria in water is uncertain but it is believed
that the chlorine compounds formed when chlorine is added to water rupture bacterial
membranes and inhibit vital enzymic activities resulting in bacterial death. Chlorine is also
a strong oxidising agent which will break up organic matter in a water; but, in so doing,
because it is a highly reactive chemical it can form a wide range of chlorinated compounds
with the organic matter present. Among these are the trihalomethanes (THM) for which
limits have been set for health reasons (see Section 9.7). Chlorine can also restrain algal
growth, react with ammonia and convert iron and manganese in the water to their oxidised
430     Disinfection of water


forms which may precipitate. Hence there are a number of factors to be taken into
consideration when using chlorine as a disinfectant.



9.3       Chlorinecompounds produced
When chlorine C12 is added to water which is free from organic matter or ammonia,
hypochlorous acid HOC1 is formed.

          C12 + H20 -- HOC1 + HC1

The very weak HOC1 is further dissociated into H + and OCI-, the extent of the
dissociation being dependent upon the pH and temperature of the water. The proportion
of active HOC1 at various pH values and temperatures are given in Table 9.1. The
hypochlorous acid HOC1 and hypochlorite ion OC1- are together known as 'free chlorine'
and are the most effective forms of chlorine for achieving disinfection. Free chlorine acts
more rapidly in an acid or neutral water. Therefore when final pH correction is practised,
the alkali should be added after the disinfection process has been completed. Of the free
chlorine, hypochlorous acid HOC1 is a more powerful bactericide than the hypochlorite
ion OC1-.
   If ammonia is present in the water, or if ammonia is added to the water, chloramines
will be formed in a stepwise manner: monochloramine NHzC1, dichloramine NHCI2, and
trichloramine NC13 (nitrogen chloride). Of these compounds, the monochloramine and
dichloramine together in total are known as the 'combined chlorine'; total chlorine is the
sum of combined chlorine and free chlorine.


Table 9.1    Variation of HOC1 as percentage of free chlorine with pH and temperature values of
water

               Percent HOC1
 pH            0~          5~         10~          15~          20~         25~          30~
 6.0           98.5        98.3        98.0        97.7         97.4         97.2         96.9
 6.25          97.4        97.0        96.5        96.0         95.5         95.1         94.6
 6.5           95.5        94.7        94.0        93.2         92.4         91.6         91.0
 6.75          92.3        91.0        89.7         88.4        87.1         86.0         84.8
 7.0           87.0        85.1        83.1         81.2        79.3         77.5         75.9
 7.25          79.1        76.2        73.4         70.8        68.2         66.0         63.9
 7.5           68.0        64.3        60.9         57.7        54.8         52.2         49.9
 7.75          54.6        50.5        46.8         43.5        40.6         38.2         36.0
 8.0           40.2        36.3        33.0         30.1        27.7         25.6         23.9
 8.25          27.4        24.3        21.7         19.5         17.6        16.2         15.0
 8.5           17.5        15.3        13.5         12.0         10.8         9.8          9.1
 8.75          10.7         9.2         8.0          7.1         6.3          5.8          5.3
 9.0            6.3         5.4         4.7          4.1         3.7          3.3          3.0

Note. Percent OC1- = 100- percent HOC1.
                          9.4 Factors relating to the disinfection efficiency of chlorine 431

   The free chlorine is many times more powerful as a bactericide than combined chlorine
(i.e. mono and dichloramines). Of the chloramines, the dichloramine is more powerful
than monochloramine requiring only about 15% of the monochloroamine dose for
inactivation of E. coli. Whitlock, 1 quoting from the work of Butterfield et al. 2 estimated
that 25 times as much combined chlorine is needed to achieve the same degree of kill of
bacteria as free chlorine in the same time. Since ammonia is often naturally present in a
water, it is usual to add sufficient chlorine to react with all the ammonia present and
produce an excess of free chlorine sufficient to achieve speedy disinfection. As a
consequence the efficacy of chlorine as a disinfectant is influenced by a number of
conditions.


9.4      Factors relating to the disinfection efficiency of chlorine
The following factors have to be taken into account when treating water with chlorine.
    The stage at which chlorine is applied. Chlorine is often applied at more than one stage in
 the treatment of a water. 'Pre-chlorination' comprises the application of chlorine to a
water (often a raw water) before it is processed through treatment works, e.g. before
clarification and filtration. 'Intermediate-stage chlorination' is chlorine added between
 stages of treatment. 'Final chlorination' means the final disinfection of a water before it is
put into supply. The purposes of pre-chlorination and intermediate-stage chlorination are
often partly biological such as to reduce bacterial content, prevent bacterial multiplication,
and restrain algal growth; and partly chemical, such as to assist in the precipitation of iron
and manganese and achieve other oxidation benefits. Final chlorination is always for the
purpose of disinfecting the water and to maintain a residual in the distribution system so
that it is safe for drinking.
    Effect of turbidity. The effect of turbidity in a water is to make it difficult for the
penetration of chlorine and therefore the destruction of bacteria in particles of suspended
matter. It is always necessary, therefore, that final disinfection by chlorine is applied as a
final stage in water which contains low turbidity. For effective disinfection the World
Health Organization 3 (WHO) suggests a guide level value for turbidity of less than 1 NTU.
    Consumption of chlorine by metallic compounds. A substantial amount of chlorine may
be used to convert iron and manganese in solution in the water into products which are
insoluble in water (see Section 8.12). Reduction of these parameters by upstream processes
is therefore desirable. Typically iron and manganese should be less than 0.1 mg/1 as Fe and
0.05 mg/1 Mn, respectively. If at the point of chlorine application their levels are too low to
justify removal, the dose must take their demand into account.
    Reaction of chlorine with ammonia compounds and organic matter. The ammonia
compounds may exist in organic matter or, alternatively, ammonia may exist separately
from organic matter (see Section 6.6); in either case they will form combined chlorine
which, as mentioned in the previous section, is not so effective a bactericide as free
chlorine. Chlorine may be used in the oxidation of some organic matter. Ammonia should
not exceed 0.015 mg/1 as N. When this value is exceeded or when organic matter is present,
an allowance should be made both in the chlorine dose and contact time to satisfy the
chlorine demand prior to disinfection.
    Therefore the substances that are causing a chlorine demand must be removed prior
to disinfection by upstream treatment or an allowance for them must be made in the
chlorine dose, otherwise disinfection could be compromised.
432   Disinfection of water

   Low temperature causes delay in disinfection. A very substantial decrease in killing power
takes place with lowering of temperature. The difference in kill rate of bacteria between
the temperatures of 20 and 2~ is noticeable both with free and combined chlorine. This
must be borne in mind when fixing the contact period (see below).
   Increasing pH reduces effectiveness of chlorine. In free chlorine and in combined chlorine
the more effective disinfectants in each case, i.e. hypochlorous acid and dichloramine
respectively, are formed in greater quantities at low pH values than at high values. Thus
disinfection is more effective at low pH values; the guide level value suggested by W H O 3
is less than 8.
   The number of coliforms presented for disinfection. This has an influence on the
disinfection efficiency. To be confident of achieving 100% compliance with the
requirement of zero coliforms leaving the disinfection stage, the water subjected to
disinfection ideally should not contain more than 100 coliforms/100 ml. Most ground
waters satisfy this criteria. In surface waters, coagulation followed by solid-liquid
separation processes, achieves up to 99.9% bacteria removal (see Section 7.13).
Consquently pre-disinfection in addition to conventional treatment is only required for
heavily polluted surface waters.
    Time of contact is important. The disinfecting effect of chlorine is not instantaneous.
Time must be allowed for the chlorine to kill organisms. This important factor is dealt
with in the next section.


9.5     Chlorine residual concentration and contact time
The principal factors influencing the disinfection efficiency of chlorine are free residual
concentration, contact time, pH and water temperature. The term 'free residual' means the
amount of free chlorine remaining after the disinfection process has taken place. Given
adequate chlorine concentration and contact time, all bacterial organisms and most
viruses can be inactivated. Thus a useful design criterion for the disinfection process is the
product of contact time (t in minutes) and the chlorine-free residual concentration (C in
mg/1) at the end of that contact time. This is known as the 'Ct value '4 or 'exposure value'. 5
On this basis the WHO guide level of 0.5 mg/1 free residual concentration after 30 minutes
contact would have a Ct value of 15 mg min/1 (see Section 9.6). This is shown to provide a
high factor of safety (12.5-fold) so that a degree of inefficiency in the contact tank
performance can be tolerated. 6
   The WHO Ct criterion is for faecally polluted water and therefore may be varied
according to the quality of the source water. For example a groundwater free of E. coli but
containing no more than 10 coliforms/100 ml could have a Ct value of 10 mg.min/1 with t
not less than 15 minutes and for groundwaters where coliforms and E. coli are absent,
marginal chlorination sufficient to maintain a residual in the distribution system with no
contact at the treatment works could be acceptable. On the other hand, for a heavily
polluted surface water a higher Ct value would be used, e.g. 30 mg min/1, with C and t
being not less than 1.0 mg/1 and 30 minutes, respectively.
   In the USA the Surface Water Treatment Rule (SWTR) 7 for disinfection specifies the
water treatment required to achieve removal by solid-liquid separation processes, and
inactivation by disinfection processes, of 3-log (99.9%) for Giardia lamblia cysts and 4-log
(99.99%) for enteric viruses, these two being chosen for their resistance to disinfection
when compared to Legionella, heterotrophic bacteria and coliforms. According to the
                                    9.5 Chlorine residual concentration and contact time                             433


SWTR, direct filtration treatment is given 2-log credit for Giardia removal and l-log for
virus removal, whilst conventional treatment of clarification and filtration is given 2.5-1og
credit for Giardia and 2-log for viruses. This leaves 1 to 0.5-log inactivation of Giardia and
2- to 3-log inactivation of viruses to be achieved by disinfection.
   Tables 9.2 and 9.3 give the Ct values stated in the SWTR to achieve l-log inactivation of
Giardia and 2 and 3-log inactivation of viruses.
   The W H O Ct criterion is applicable to the inactivation of bacteria and most viruses and
therefore cannot be compared with the Ct values for inactivation of cysts given in Table
9.2. Comparison with Ct values in Table 9.3 confirms that the W H O criterion has a high
factor of safety which is desirable to ensure complete inactivation.
   In the expression Ct, the contact time, t, is the time the water remains in the contact
tank. Due to eddies and short-circuiting, the total volume of the tank may not be available
for contact, some water may pass through the tank in less time than the theoretical
residence time (tT) which is the volume of water in the tank divided by the rate of flow. It is
therefore necessary to design the contact tank so that at least 90% of water passing
through the tank remains in the tank for more than the required contact time at the design




Table 9.2   Ct values for achieving l-log inactivation of Giardia lamblia

                                           Ct value at water temperature
Disinfectant                       pH         0.5~       5~          10~              15~           20~        25~
Free residual chlorine of 2 mg/1 6           49            39             29            19            15         10
                                   7         70            55             41            28            21         14
                                   8        101           81              61            41            30         20
                                   9        146          118              88            59            44         29
Ozone                              6-9        0.97         0.63            0.48          0.32          0.24       0.16
Chlorine dioxide                   6-9       21            8.7             7.7           6.3           5          3.7
Chloramines (pre-formed)           6-9     1270          735             615           500           370        250


Table 9.3   Ct values for achieving 2- and 3-log inactivation of enteric viruses at pH values 6-9

                                                  Ct values at water temperature
Disinfectant                 Log inactivation        0.5~       5~             10~      15~         20~        25~
Free residual chlorine                 2             6               4            3           2            1         1
                                       3             9             6     4                    3         2         1
Ozone                                  2             0.9           0.6   0.5                  0.3       0.25      0.15
                                       3             1.4           0.9   0.8                  0.5       0.4       0.25
Chlorine dioxide                       2             8.4           5.6   4.2                  2.8       2.1       1.4
                                       3            25.6          17.1  12.8                  8.6       6.4       4.3
Chloramines (pre-formed)               2          1243           857   643                  428       321       214
                                       3          2063          1423 1067                   712       534       356
434   Disinfection of water


flow rate. This is also called the t~0 time, i.e. the time it takes 10% of water to pass through
the tank. The ratio of tlo/tT is a measure of short-circuiting in the contact tank and varies
in the range 0-1. A value of one is an indication of total plug flow, but in practice
depending on the design it varies between 0.5-0.7.
   A good design can be achieved either by physical modelling 8 or mathematical models,
e.g. CONTANK 9 or DISINFEX ~~or computational fluid dynamics (CFD) models. In the
absence of these tools the following basic design parameters are suggested: the inlet jet
should be baffled, the tank should be divided into long straight flow and return channels
of length:width ratio greater than 10 and depth:width ratio less than 1.5 and a weir outlet
should be provided to maintain the required volume of water under all flow conditions.
With these provisions, a value of tlo/tT of 0.5-0.7 may be achieved and the volume of the
tank will have to be increased accordingly. The actual time of contact provided by a newly
designed or existing tanks can be checked by timing the passage of a slug dose of a tracer
chemical such as lithium chloride at a concentration of <0.1 rag/1 through the tank 8 or by
using models.
   Pipelines can also be used to provide contact time, provided no consumers are supplied
on route and control and monitoring of the residual chlorine at its downstream end is
possible and convenient.
   The free residual chlorine concentration of the water leaving the contact tank, after the
requisite time of contact, can be reduced if desired by partial dechlorination (see Section
9.13) to suit the needs of the distribution system.


9.6      Efficiency of chlorine in relation to bacteria, enteric viruses,
         and protozoa
Bacterial kill. The work of Butterfield et al. 2 has shown that under nearly all conditions the
typhoid bacillus and other enteric pathogenic bacteria are at least as susceptible to
chlorination as E. coli. Due to the far greater concentrations of E. coli present in pollution
of human or animal origin (see Section 6.60) it is therefore practicable to assume that, if E.
coli are absent in a 100 ml sample of disinfected water, then the water is also free of
pathogenic bacteria. The spores of bacteria are, however, more resistant to the action of
chlorine than are the bacteria; fortunately the bacteria causing most waterborne diseases
are not spore formers. The spore-forming Clostridium perfringens (Cl. welchii) used as an
indicator of pollution (see Section 6.62) is not considered significant for health.
   Virus kill. The pathogenic enteric viruses, described in Section 6.58, occur in far less
numbers than E. coli in a polluted water. However they can survive for long periods in
water and the minimum infective dose causing human infection is believed to be very low.
Test methods available for detecting the presence of viruses (see Section 6.67) cannot be
used for routine monitoring. The enteric viruses have also been shown to be more resistant
to chlorine than E. coli. Poynter et al. 11 in 1972 reported Russian experiments had
indicated that higher levels of residual chlorine and longer periods of contact were
required to free water from viruses than were required to destroy E. coli, and similar
results were obtained by Scarpino et al. 12
   The consequence of these difficulties is that tests showing the absence of E. coli in
 100 ml samples of disinfected water do not give the same level of confidence that viruses
are absent as they do for the absence of pathogenic bacteria. However the E. coli test
remains the only practicable one at present for routine monitoring, and the WHO 3
                                 9.7 Chlorination and the production of trihalomethanes      435


considers: 'it has been demonstrated that a virus-flee water can be obtained from faecally
polluted source waters' if the following chlorine disinfection conditions are met:
9     the water has a turbidity of 1 N T U or less;
9     its pH is below 8.0;
9     a contact period of at least 30 minutes is given; and
9     the chlorine dose applied is sufficient to achieve at least 0.5 mg/1 free residual chlorine
      during the whole contact period.
Protozoa resistance to chlorine. The principal protozoa pathogenic to h u m a n s - Entamoeba
histolytica, Giardia lamblia, and Cryptosporidium parvum - were described in Section 6.57
where it was mentioned that human infection takes place through ingestion of them in
their cyst stage. Like viruses the cysts can remain viable in the environment for long
periods; the ingestion of a very few may be sufficient to cause human infection; and
detection of their presence by routine testing is impracticable.
   The cysts are more resistant to chlorine than viruses. The WHO describes the cysts of E.
histolytica as 'among the most chlorine-resistant pathogens known', and the resistance of
Giardia lamblia to chlorine as falling 'somewhere between E. h&tolytica and enteric
viruses'. 13 The cysts of Cryptosporidium (called 'oocysts') were also found to be very
resistant to chlorine, concentrations of 16 000 mg/1 chlorine or more having been found
necessary to reduce the viability of the oocysts to zero. 14 The small size of cysts - E.
histolytica 10-20 #m; Giardia" spp. 8-12 #m; Cryptosporidium 4-6 # m - means their
complete removal by conventional processes of coagulation, clarification and filtration
cannot be relied upon although these processes can be designed and operated to give
between 2- and 3-log removal for Cryptosporidium (see Section 7.43) and higher log
removal for others.
   No completely satisfactory disinfection procedure to eliminate these protozoan cysts
and oocysts has yet been found. The use of ozone in lieu of chlorine as a disinfectant
appears likely to be more effective and research is continuing. Slow sand and membrane
filtration offer the prospect of removing a high proportion of the cysts and oocysts. Apart
from these possibilities the only recommendations that can presently be made relate to
eradicating sources of pollution likely to give rise to the presence of such pathogenic
protozoa in a water. If their presence is detected in a water an intensive search for the
source and its elimination is necessary. When they are detected or suspected in the treated
water, it is necessary to advise consumers to boil water used for drinking until evidence of
their elimination from the supply is obtained (see Section 9.25).


9.7       Chlorination and the production of trihalomethanes
When chlorine is applied to water containing precursors which arise from the presence of
natural colour and algal metabolic products, THMs are formed (see Sections 6.21 and
8.34). The reaction rate is favoured by the increase in precursor and free chlorine residual
concentration, pH, temperature and contact time. Limits to their concentration in
drinking water have been set because of their possible health effect. Emphasis is now
placed on avoiding, or limiting the pre-chlorination of a raw water containing organic
matter in order to minimise the formation of THMs. If a pre-disinfection stage is
necessary, chlorine dioxide or ozone may be used instead of chlorine (see Sections 9.17 and
9.22 below). Alternatively, since chloramine does not react with organic matter to produce
436   Disinfection of water

THMs to the same extent as free chlorine, the chlorine dose may be kept low enough to
produce only chloramines by making use of ammonia when present in the water, or by
using chloramination of raw water (see Section 9.8). If relatively high levels of THMs are
expected at the treatment works outlet, the degree of removal of organic substances prior
to chlorination must be maximised. In some instances, it has been sufficient to move the
pre-chlorination dosing point further downstream in the treatment process, e.g. after
coagulation and clarification. If that is insufficient, advanced treatment processes,
described in Sections 8.34-36, can be used to prevent THM formation by the removal of
precursors before final chlorination is applied.
   The maintenance of residual chlorine in the treated water may cause THM formation to
continue within the distribution system by the reaction with residual precursors,
particularly at high pH. THM formation reaction is initially fast with up to 50%
formation in the first hour or so, but takes several hours or even days to complete and
therefore its concentration at the consumers' tap could be much higher than in the treated
water leaving the works. The position can be exacerbated in nutrient-rich waters when
'booster chlorination', i.e. addition of further chlorine at some key point(s) in the
distribution system, has to be adopted to limit biological aftergrowths within the system.
The formation of THMs in the distribution system can be minimised by controlled dosing
of ammonia to convert free chlorine residual to combined chlorine residual (see next
section)
   Whatever measures are adopted, the WHO Guidelines emphasise that the disinfection
process must not be compromised, and that 'inadequate disinfection in order not to
elevate the THM level is not acceptable' (see Section 6.21).


9.8     The ammonia-chlorine or chloramination process
Combined chlorine, i.e. chloramine resulting from the reaction of chlorine with ammonia
in water, is not commonly used as a primary disinfectant because of the acknowledged
greater efficiency of free chlorine (see Section 9.3). In some instances a theoretical contact
period of several hours would be required for chloramine to achieve adequate disinfection
of certain difficult waters. ~5 However ammonia is sometimes deliberately added after final
chlorination to produce a chloramine residual in the final water passing into the
distribution system. The primary reasons for using chloramines rather than chlorine a r e -
the residual is longer lasting than chlorine, reduction in THM formation, superior control
of biofilm growth (aftergrowth of bacteria or low forms of animal life) in the distribution
system, and high doses (about 2 mg/1) can be applied with less risk of producing
chlorinous taste. The weight ratio of chlorine to ammonia (as N) is usually in the range 3:1
to 4:1, and the ammonia is added after final chlorination when the free chlorine has acted
for the requisite contact time. The reaction is fast taking only a few seconds to form a
combined residual. The most effective pH range for chloramination is 7-8.5 when
monochloroamine is predominant. Also excess ammonia ensures monochloramine is
predominant (see disadvantages below).
   An advantage of maintaining residual chloramine in water passing into the distribution
 system is that, if routine examinations show chloramine is present at the ends of the
 distribution system, this should indicate that no serious pollution has entered the pipes en
route. The residual cannot be large enough to disinfect pollution entering the system, but it
is useful for monitoring the state of the distribution system. The principal disadvantage of
                                                               9.10 Superchlorination   437


chloramination is the nitrification of any excess ammonia or free ammonia released by the
breakdown of chloramines, to nitrite in the distribution system by nitrifying bacteria.
Nitrites are toxic (see Section 6.30). Control methods include optimising the chlorine-to-
ammonia ratio, 16 flushing out the affected sections, decreasing residence time in service
reservoir, removing excess ammonia locally by break-point chlorination (see Section 9.9),
or re-chloramination of the affected sections to eliminate bacterial growth.
   Blending of chloraminated water with water containing free residual chlorine in
distribution systems should be avoided as it could result in the formation of dichloramine
and nitrogen trichloride which are well known for causing taste problems.


9.9     Breakpoint chlorination
Where a water already contains ammonia the production of chloramine is unavoidable
when chlorine is added. To ensure the production of free chlorine to enhance bacterial kill,
substantially more chlorine may have to be added because the additional chlorine at first
only causes a reduction of the chloramines by oxidation. Only when this reaction is
completed does the addition of further chlorine produce free chlorine. Stoichiometrically
the breakdown of ammonia to nitrogen commences at a chlorine:ammonia (as N) ratio of
5:1 and completes at a ratio of 7.6:1.* In practice the ratio for complete breakdown could
be as much as 10:1 and is pH dependent. The point at which the free chlorine begins to
form is called the 'breakpoint' for the water, and adding enough chlorine to exceed this is
called 'breakpoint chlorination'. This is illustrated in Fig. 9.1. In laboratory experiments
Palin ~7 observed that for neutral to slightly alkaline pH when the ratio of chlorine to
ammonia (as N) is less than 5:1 (by weight) the residual was mainly NH2C1; breakpoint
occurred at 9.5:1 for pH 6; between 8.2:1 and 8.4:1 for pH 7 to 8; and 8.5:1 for pH 9. As
the ratio increased to 10:1 and above there was a decrease in combined chlorine
accompanied by increases in NC13 and free C12. Apart from the advantage of producing
free chlorine, breakpoint chlorination can sometimes reduce taste and odour problems.
The foregoing reactions are complex, being dependent on numerous factors such as
temperature, pH and contact time. The breakpoint reaction could take about 20 minutes
to complete and depends on the water quality. In some waters the ammonia content may
be so high (0.5-1.0 mg/1) that the amount of chlorine to be applied to achieve breakpoint
is uneconomic and other means to reduce the ammonia first should be adopted (see
Section 8.27).


9.10    Superchlorination
By 'superchlorination' is meant the dosing of a water with a high dose of chlorine, often
much larger than the usual condition of the water demands. The method is most often
used on a borehole or well water which, though normally free of pollution, may be subject
to the onset of pollution to an unknown degree following heavy rainfall or some other
circumstances. The normally unpolluted water may only require a small protective dose of
chlorine of the order of 0.2 mg/1. To wait for the pollution to occur, detect it, and then
increase the dose is impracticable since action could not take place in time to prevent some


*Ratio of chlorine to ammonia as NH3 = 6.26:1, and of chlorine to ammonia as NH4 + = 5.92:1.
438           Disinfection of water

      10-

                                                            Applied chlorine dose
                                                                                                          /
      9 -                                                     (also equal to free
                                                            resicd/arliChIdrenmefor

      8




      7
                   Trihalomethanes are not formed                              /           Essential for
                   and no taste and odour problems          I                               I
                                                                                           disinfection
m 6                 (suitable range when ammonia            [          Taste and            [
                                                                                          when ammonia
E
v
          -         ... is dosed for chloramination)       ~[        odour problems.. ~[~   is present                   =_
.==
 O
-F
 (.)
     5


(/)                                                                                Chlorine demand
rrr 4
                                                                     Predominantly          I
                                                                   dichloramine and         I    Free residual
      3. . . . . .                        /           ~'~7~           nitrogen gas          I chlorine increases
            ~'reoommanTq              /           .,,4"/ / ' ' / /%,           /            I   nronortionatel~
           monochloramine                                                                       v tothe dose J

      2

          -                                                                             ea poin
      1
          F /.,~//                                              Chloro.organics/~N,~ i z ( ~ ] l l '         residual
          ] /.,,,qr /                                            not destroyed ~   / ~I'~1~, . . . . . . . . . . . . .
      0          / '           ,                                                    ,             7777,777          7,
          0            1       2          3       4        5         6              7     7.6 8            9             10
                                                  Chlorine dose (mg/I)
Fig. 9.1 Theoretical breakpoint curve for a water containing 1.0 mg/1 ammonia (as N) (adapted
from White4).




of the pollution passing into supply. It is also used on heavily polluted river waters, where
the pre-treatment process does not include a pre-disinfection stage. Therefore a continuous
high dose and adequate contact time is given sufficient to counter the worst conditions
likely. After the contact period the water can be partially de-chlorinated by the injection of
sulphur dioxide or sodium bisulphite (see Section 9.13), and the dose may be so controlled
that only a part is removed, leaving a residual to go into supply. These processes of
chlorination and partial dechlorination to achieve some given level of residual chlorine can
be controlled automatically. Super chlorination can also sometimes be found helpful in the
case of waters liable to give rise to taste and odours with lesser doses of chlorine.
                                                               9.12 Use of chlorine gas    439


9.11     Typical chlorine doses; taste problems.
Typical chlorine dosages to final treated waters are frequently in the range 0.2-2.0 mg/1 of
free chlorine. The lower doses tend to be those used on clear well waters not subject to
pollution; the higher doses relating to treated surface waters or to well or borehole supplies
which are liable to experience sudden pollution, where superchlorination followed by
partial dechlorination after adequate contact time may be advised. Some waters,
particularly surface waters, can have a high chlorine demand of 6-8 mg/1.15 For a very
clear water with no history of pollution, marginal chlorination at 0.2-0.5 mg/1 might be
adopted.
   Application of chlorine can cause taste and odours, but these are principally caused by
the reaction of chlorine with some of the many trace compounds in the water (see Section
8.32).


Production and application of chlorine
9.12 Use of chlorine gas
Chlorine is contained as a liquid under pressure in drums or cylinders. The liquid occupies
about 95% of the volume, the remaining 5% is occupied by the gas. Most cylinders are
designed to draw gas only, but the drum design allows either gas or liquid to be
withdrawn. The cylinders are available in 33, 65 and 71 kg capacities whilst drums are
available in 864, 966 and 1000 kg capacities. Gas withdrawal rate, at 15~ and 2 bar back
pressure, is 1.0 and 1.5 kg/h for 33 and 71 kg cylinders, respectively and that for a drum is
7 kg/h. Higher rates can be achieved by connecting more than one container in parallel. A
practical limit to the number of containers connected to a header is about six for cylinders
and four for drums. The larger the number of containers connected the greater the number
of connecting joints and hence the risk of a leak. When higher rates are required the
contents should be drawn as liquid and vaporised in evaporators before use. The liquid
should not be drawn from more than one container. In a few large works where chlorine
usage is high, chlorine is stored as a liquid between 4 and 8 bar pressure at 5-30~ in bulk
storage vessels which are filled from road tankers. The bulk storage facilities must be
designed to very high standards of safety. TM
   Chlorine gas is metered at sub-atmospheric pressure and made into a chlorine-water
solution containing up to 3500 mg/1 C12 for application to the water supply by means of an
auxiliary water flow passing through an ejector which, at the same time, creates the
operating vacuum (Fig. 9.2). Thus interruption or failure of the operating water supply
will immediately shut down the flow of gas.
   The gas from the containers enters the system via a vacuum regulating valve which is
positioned either as an integral part of the chlorinator or as a separate unit located as close
as possible to the containers. The valve reduces the gas supply pressure from up to 10 bar
down to a vacuum of about 170 mb. In the unlikely event that positive pressure should
reach beyond the vacuum regulating valve a pressure relief valve will vent a small quantity
of gas to outside and operate an internal check valve until such time as normal vacuum
conditions are restored.
   The flow of gas is metered by maintaining a constant differential pressure drop across a
manually or automatically adjusted variable area orifice through which the gas passes, the
rate of flow being indicated by a glass tube flowmeter. Should an excess vacuum condition
440   Disinfection of water




                                                                                                  Gas control unit
                                      Vacuum
                                        relief
                                        valve                                            Differential
                                                                                         regulating
                                                                                         valve
                                    Flowmeter

                         Safety
                          vent "~
                                     Vacuum
                                       relief
                                                ~                                        ,V-notch plug
                                                                                         ~          ~ Solution
                                                                                                   ~ discharge




                                                 Lcuum regulating
                                                   relief valve

                                                                                                  Ejectoroperating
                                                                                                    watersupply

          suppny                                                   (a)

                                                                                                Chlorine
                                                                                         Buffer residual Trans-
                Automaticchangeover                                                      pump cell mitter
                                                               Gasmetering                 ---
                    r~        "-~ Vacuum II DU           ]    regulator           I               I LLIIB~ =
                    ! II       / regulator ] ] ~             ,/                   ~               ""'---II(~

                     ]"~ ~ L-Y"~'~-~-3~ UcJb'~"~~ controller ~               Ii
                   Er~ ~     ~ ~ ~ G a S ,                     signal, 'Flow 11, ContinuOUSsample
                                                                  ,or           i         water
                    I                       L      III   v          IL__-'~I   /~uuuau    I   ,    -    tt
                    I      "T'~_--l----r--~'q~__- ill              ~11/         control ! }             II _


                             Injector water ~~,~2.s162                              ]    9- . ~
                                                                        Water flow
                                                             Magnetic flowmeter
                        Notes: DistanceB to C should be about 10 pipe diameters.
                               Processtime A(BC)to D should be about 4 minutesat averageflow.
                                                            (b)
Fig. 9.2 Vacuum-operated gas metering unit for automatic dosage injection, controlled by residual
recorder. Suitable for recorder, sulphur dioxide, or ammonia (as USF Wallace and Tiernan Ltd).
                                                               9.12 Use of chlorine gas    441


occur within the system, as when the gas supply is exhausted, a relief valve operates
downstream of the metering section and a no-flow condition will be indicated on the
flowmeter. Depending upon the type and capacity of the equipment the ejector may form
an integral part of the unit, or be separately mounted either adjacent to the chlorinator or
near the point of application. The chlorine dose rate may be automatically adjusted to
accommodate variations in water flow or quality, or both, by means of an electric
positioner fitted to the variable area orifice (see Fig. 9.2) to accept a control signal from a
chlorine residual monitor to maintain a pre-set level of residual chlorine.
   Chlorine is known to contain up to 0.1% w/w of bromine. This if allowed to react with
ozone could form up to 1.6 #g/1 of bromate for each 1 mg/1 of chlorine dosed upstream of
ozonation.
   Safety precautions. Chlorine gas reacts explosively with many organic compounds.
When mixed with water or moisture it is extremely corrosive. Pipework carrying liquid or
gaseous chlorine should be of carbon steel and must be designed to exclude water or moist
air; uPVC pipework can be used for chlorine gas under vacuum and for chlorine solution
applications.
   Chlorine is very toxic with an 8-hour exposure limit of 0.5 ml/m 3 and a 15-minute
exposure limit of 1.0 ml/m3.19 Liquid chlorine leaks are far more dangerous than chlorine
gas leaks since, upon evaporation, 1 kg of liquid chlorine yields about 335 litres of gas at
15~ and 345 litres at 25~ Chlorine gas is heavier than air. A chlorine solution leak gives
chlorine fumes laden with moisture and is very dangerous as it seems more tolerable to the
respiratory tract than inhalation of dry chlorine. 4
   Safety precautions must be taken in the design and layout of chlorine installations to
safeguard the operators and the public. 18'2~ For sites in the UK, the Control of Major
Accident Hazards Regulations 21 must also be complied with.
   Chlorine facilities should be designed to minimise leaks and to contain them if they
should occur. A chlorine building should house storage and dosing equipment and should
be separated from any ventilation intakes of other buildings by at least 25 m and from the
site boundary by at least 20 m (for cylinder installations), 40 m (for drum installation using
gas) and 60 m (for drum installations using liquid). Chlorine containers should always be
installed in a separate 'gas tight' store constructed in substantially fire-resistant material
and should be provided with access from open air. All doors should open outwards and
emergency exit doors should have a push bar operated panic bolt. External windows
should be avoided, artificial illumination being used throughout. A useful safety measure
at chlorine installations is to fit the containers connected to headers with a remote shut-off
device for effective isolation of the chlorine supply at the container in the event of a
downstream leak. Risk of chlorine leaks should be minimised by conveying chlorine under
vacuum, e.g. vacuum regulating valves should be located in the container store so that
pipelines conveying chlorine liquid or gas under pressure are confined to the store and
ejectors should be located remote from the chlorinators, local to the point of application
so that the risk of a chlorine solution leak is confined to a short length of pipe at the point
of application. Heaters (non-radiant type) may need to be installed in the container store
to maintain a temperature greater than 10~ The ventilation system in the container store
should have high level fresh air inlets and low level extraction of foul air discharging to
outside at high level. Ventilation systems should be designed to give not less than 10 air
changes per hour and should be arranged to start at a low leak level and to shut down at a
high leak level to contain major leaks. Leak detectors with a 1 ml/m 3 low detection limit
442    Disinfection of water

and 3 ml/m 3 high detection limit should be installed in enclosed areas where chlorine is
handled.
   At chlorine sites in urban areas or near housing developments or with inventories of 10
or more tonnes, the use of a chlorine absorption plant for neutralising a leak should be
considered. The absorption plant should be designed to treat the contents of a container
(e.g. 1000 kg for a drum installation). The leakage rate could vary from 1.5 kg/min to
about 35 kg/min. A typical system consists of a packed tower (see Section 8.19) where the
foul air flows counter-current to a flow of dilute caustic soda (10-20% w/w NaOH) which
is continually recycled back to the top of the tower. Stoichiometrically 1000 kg of chlorine
(about 340 m 3 as gas) requires 1127 kg of caustic soda (100% w/w NaOH); in practice
about 20% more caustic soda would be required.


9.13     Dechlorination
Dechlorination can be achieved with sulphur dioxide or sodium bisulphite and should be
carried out after chlorine has had adequate contact time for disinfection. In disinfection
treatment (see superchlorination, Section 9.10) only partial dechlorination is required. In
pre-treatment for reverse osmosis, complete dechlorination is the objective (see Section
8.46). The dechlorination reaction is fast taking less than 1 minute to complete.
   Sulphur dioxide, similar to chlorine, is contained in cylinders (30 and 65 kg) or drums
(865 and 1016 kg) and is drawn for use as a gas or liquid. The gas withdrawal rates, at
15~ and 2 bar back pressure, are 0.3 and 0.45 kg/h from 30 and 65 kg cylinders,
respectively, and 2.3 kg/h from a drum. Higher withdrawal rates can be achieved by
connecting several containers in parallel, or withdrawing sulphur dioxide as a liquid and
vaporising in evaporators. The equipment used for sulphur dioxide is very similar to that
used for chlorine. The dose rate may be automatically controlled proportional to water
flow, or to maintain a pre-set level of chlorine residual, or both. Stoichiometrically 0.9 mg
of sulphur dioxide removes 1.0 mg of chlorine; in practice at least 15% more sulphur
dioxide would be required.
   Safety precautions. Sulphur dioxide is corrosive; materials of construction used for
chlorine can be used for sulphur dioxide. Sulphur dioxide is a toxic gas with an 8-hour
exposure limit of 2 ml/m 3 and a 15-minute exposure limit of 5 ml/m3.19 Liquid sulphur
dioxide leaks are far more dangerous than a corresponding gas leak since, on evaporation
 1 kg of liquid sulphur dioxide yields about 370 litres of gas at 15~ and 380 litres at 25~
It is heavier than air and is compatible with chlorine and therefore can be stored in the
same room as chlorine.
   Sodium bisulphite is available as a solution containing 20% w/w SO2 (for properties see
Table 7.7). Stoichiometrically 4.5 mg of sodium bisulphite (20% w/w SO2) removes 1.0 mg
of chlorine; in practice at least 15% excess sodium bisulphite would be required. Any
spillages should be neutralised with soda ash to prevent sulphur dioxide emission, and
then be oxidised to neutral sulphate with sodium hypochlorite. The chemical is dosed
using positive displacement metering pumps. Automatic dose control requires control of
 the pump motor speed proportional to water flow and adjustment of the stroke length to
maintain a pre-set chlorine residual in the water.
    Other dechlorination methods include filtration through granular activated carbon
 (GAC) or ammonia (see Section 9.9) or hydrogen peroxide treatment. GAC is
 sometimes used to protect chlorine sensitive reverse osmosis membranes; flow rates of
                                  9.15 Hypochlorite production on site by electrolysis   443


10-15 m3/h.m 2 are typical with EBCT between 10 to 15 minutes. GAC is consumed by
chlorine and cannot therefore be regenerated for reuse.
  Sulphur dioxide leaks are treated in absorbers of a similar design to those described for
chlorine, using caustic soda as the absorbent.


9.14    Ammoniation
Ammonia or ammonium sulphate can be used for ammoniation and should be added after
disinfection and partial dechlorination (if applicable). Final pH correction should follow
ammoniation. Ammonia is available as a liquid in cylinders (49 and 65 kg) or drums
(500 kg). It is withdrawn as a gas at 0.5 kg/h from a cylinder or 2 kg/h from a drum at
15~ or as a liquid to evaporators. Apparatus used is very similar to that used for
chlorine. Ammonia dosing may be automatically controlled proportional to water flow or
to a pre-set ratio of free residual chlorine:ammonia, or both. Ammonia is very soluble in
water and is corrosive. Steel piping is suitable for conveyance of ammonia liquid and dry
gas. Iron, copper and zinc are attacked by ammonia solution, but uPVC is suitable. Water
for use in ammonia dosing solution should be softened to a hardness value of less than
25 mg/1 as CaCO3.
   Ammonia is toxic with an 8-hour exposure limit of 25 ml/m 3 and a 15-minute exposure
limit of 35 ml/m3,19 and is lighter than air. It is flammable and flammable limits are 15 and
28% by volume. Electrical apparatus in areas where ammonia is handled should therefore
be suitably protected. Ammonia gas forms explosive mixtures with chlorine and sulphur
dioxide gases and should therefore be stored away from them. Storage room design
requirements are similar to those for chlorine, except for the ventilation system which
requires low level flesh air inlets and air extraction and disposal at high level.
   Ammonium sulphate is a crystalline powder (for properties see Table 7.7). Dosing of
ammonium sulphate solution is by positive displacement metering pump. The speed of the
pump may be automatically controlled proportional to water flow, or the stroke length of
the pump may be automatically adjusted to maintain a pre-set ratio of free chlorine
residual:ammonia, or both.
   Absorbers for treating ammonia leaks are of a similar design to those used for chlorine.
Absorbent used for ammonia is sulphuric acid (10%w/w H2SO4).


9.15    Hypochlorite production on site by electrolysis
Sodium hypochlorite can be produced by the electrolysis of brine (a solution of sodium
chloride). A direct current passed through a solution of sodium chloride (common salt)
containing Na + and CI-, produces chlorine at the anode, and hydrogen at the cathode.
With mixing of the catholyte, anolyte and sodium ions in the solution, sodium
hypochlorite (Na + OC1-) is produced. The principal reactions are as follows:

         At the anode         2C1- - 2e = C12
         At the cathode       2H20 + 2e = 2OH- + H2
         On mixing            2Na + + 2OH- + C12 = Na+OC1 - + Na+C1 + H20

  The process is favoured in UK because the hypochlorite solution can be manufactured
on site, thus avoiding the risks of transporting and handling liquid and gas chlorine and
444   Disinfection of water

the difficulty of meeting all the associated safety measures required. The on-site generation
gives a hypochlorite solution easy to handle, with favourable running costs as compared
with the use of purchased liquified chlorine. The process can be used on large or small
supplies.
   A diagram of the plant used is shown in Fig. 9.3, and Plate 25 shows a 320 kg Cl2/day
electrolyser. The brine for electrolysis is prepared by withdrawing saturated brine from a
salt saturator at a concentration 358 g/1 (10~         360 g/1 (20~ or 363 g/1 (30~ and
diluting this to 20-30 g/1. About 3.5 kg of sodium chloride is required to form 1 kg of
chlorine; approximately 50% of sodium chloride is converted to hypochlorite. The salt
should be of high purity grade, free from calcium, magnesium and heavy metals. Pure
dried vacuum salt containing at least 99.7% w/w NaC1 is most suitable (for properties see
Table 7.7). Lower quality salt should be treated by chemical softening to remove hardness.
Water for saturation and dilution of salt must have a hardness less than 25 mg/1 as CaCO3
and may therefore need to be softened; base exchange softening being used. The process
water requirements are about 125-150 litres per kg of chlorine. The feed water
temperature should be maintained above 5-10~ to maximise anode coating life; the
product solution temperature should be below 40~ to inhibit chlorate formation (see by-
products below). The temperature rise in the electrolyser is limited to about 20~ In cold
climates it may be necessary to warm the feed water, and in hot climates to cool it.
   The chlorine content of the hypochlorite produced is in the range 6-9 g C12/1. The
electrical consumption is 4-5 kWh per kg of chlorine produced; a low voltage direct
current (e.g. 40 V) is used. Hydrogen gas is produced at the cathode at the rate of 330 litres


                                                         Air blower               ~ Hydrogen
                                                                                   and air
                                                                              ;    discharge
                                  Hypochloritesolution
                                    and hydrogengas
                                                                                           Level
                                                                                           probes
                             Electrol,                  Heat.
                                                    xchanger            Hypochlorite
                                                                        storage and
                                                                        gasrelease
                   Transformer~ 1 ~                                         tank
                      - rectifier
                 Base
             exchange, ~                                   Diluent
               softener         Softeneddiluting
                (2 No.)              water           Brine
             llet I      ,! Solenoid valve
                                                         Flow
                                                         meter                         To injection
                                                                                          point

                                     Salt     I    ~:~]Brine
                                  saturator                      pump
                                                                          Hypochlorite
               waste                                                     dosing pumps


Fig. 9.3 On-site hypochlorite production by electrolysis of brine.
                                                             9.16 Testing for chlorine   445


at 15~ and 1 bar pressure, per kg of chlorine produced. The sodium hypochlorite solution
with the hydrogen is fed to an enclosed hydrogen disentrainment tank which can also act
as a solution storage tank. The hydrogen degasses very rapidly to an airspace at the top of
the tank, which is force ventilated with air at a rate 100 times the maximum hydrogen
production rate. This reduces the hydrogen concentration to 1%, i.e. one-quarter of the
'lower explosion limit' which is 4% of hydrogen in air by volume. The diluted gas is then
vented to the atmosphere. The hypochlorite solution, having checked for chlorine content,
is injected by a positive displacement metering pump into the water to be treated.
Hypochlorite solution tanks can be constructed in high density polyethylene or GRP with
a PVC lining.
   At coastal installations hypochlorite can be produced from seawater. Due to
contaminants present in seawater, such as hardness, heavy metals and suspended
matter, a special cell design with appropriate anodes and cathodes is used, and the chlorine
content of the hypochlorite solution is maintained at about 1 g/1. The feed water should be
free of pollution and have a relatively constant salinity and must be passed through a
strainer to remove coarse suspended particles. Hypochlorite produced from seawater is
used primarily for biological growth control in raw water, or cooling water treatment at
desalination, or coastal power generation plants.
   Safety measures. Electrolytic plant presents a potential fire and explosion hazard due to
the hydrogen produced. Precautions should therefore be taken in the siting, layout, and
design of the plant. 22 The design of electrical apparatus needs particular attention: as
much as possible of such apparatus should be sited in a non-hazardous area or else
specially protected.
   By-products. Several side reactions take place during the electrolysis of brine. One such
produces chlorate, C10 3, which is considered potentially harmful to health and
consequently a limit of 0.7 mg/1 chlorate in the treated water has been set under the
UK Water Regulations (see Section 6.53). Commercial units are known to produce less
than 0.1 mg of chlorate as C103- per 1.0 mg of chlorine and this acts as a limiting factor
to the amount of hypochlorite that can be applied. The process also produces bromates
from bromides present as an impurity in the salt. The use of high purity salt containing
0.015% w/w of bromide restricts the bromate concentration to less than 1.0/~g per 1.0 mg
of chlorine.
   All the sodium chloride used in the feed to electrolyser is injected into the water being
treated as sodium and chloride. Account therefore has to be taken of the limits set for the
sodium content of drinking water (see Section 6.41) and the design of the disinfection
process has to take this factor into account. Also chloride coupled with low alkalinity in a
water can contribute to corrosion of metals (see Section 8.42). The quantities of sodium
and chloride produced are 1.38 and 2.12 mg, respectively per mg of C12 produced.


9.16    Testing for chlorine
On-line measurement of the chlorine content of a water is achieved by passing a
continuous sample of the chlorinated water to a cell containing electrodes of dissimilar
metals, e.g. platinum and copper, or platinum and silver. The galvanic current induced
between the electrodes reduces because of polarisation of the electrodes, but the presence
of chlorine acts as a de-polarising agent, so the current produced by the cell varies in
proportion to the concentration of chlorine in the cell water. The resulting variations of
446    Disinfection of water

the micro-ampere current are used to measure the chlorine concentration. The flow rate of
sample water through the cell must be held constant so that the chlorine content of the
sample is always proportional to the chlorine concentration in the main flow of water. The
electrodes have to be constantly cleansed, and the pH of the sample water may have to be
automatically adjusted if it is outside the range for which the apparatus is designed.
Additional equipment can provide numerical display and print-out records of chlorine
measurements.
   Modern treatment works using chlorine for final disinfection are usually provided with
automatic chlorine residual recorders and controllers. Most engineers consider it desirable
that the chlorine content of the final water leaving the sourceworks is also checked
manually once or twice a day. Manual testing of the chlorine content of water is also
necessary on samples drawn from the distribution system.
   Manual testing for chlorine comprises the addition of reagents, usually in the form of
tablets, to a prescribed sample quantity of water and comparing the colour developed in
the sample with a range of standard colour discs. A wide range of discs and reagents are
available so that both free chlorine and combined chlorine can be measured for
concentrations from 0.01 mg/1 upwards. The reagents used for measuring chlorine content
were developed by Palin in the 1960s and comprise diethyl-p-phenylene diamine (DPD) to
produce a pink colouration, the intensity of which is proportional to the free chlorine
present. The further addition of potassium iodide to the same sample gives a colour
intensity proportional to the total chlorine concentration (i.e. free and total chlorine), the
difference between the two readings gives the amount of combined chlorine present.
   As an alternative to visual comparison, the colour can be measured photometrically,
with display and print-out of recorded values. Such apparatus is helpful in removing the
subjective element involved in judging colour intensity by eye. In the use of all such
apparatus a practical requirement is the need to keep sample tubes clean and to have
available a stock of new tubes for use when those in use can no longer be cleaned
satisfactorily.


9.17     Use of chlorine dioxide
Chlorine dioxide is produced on-site due to its relatively short half-life, commonly by the
reaction between a solution of chlorine (in water) and sodium chlorite (NaC102) in a glass
reaction chamber packed with porcelain Rashig rings. It may also be generated by the
reaction between sodium chlorite and hydrochloric acid (HC1). Sodium chlorite is supplied
as a liquid containing 26% w/w of NaC102 in small containers or in bulk. For properties
of sodium chlorite see Table 7.7. Spillages of sodium chlorite should be washed quickly as
evaporation leads to deposits of high flammable sodium chlorite powder.
   The proportion of chlorine to sodium chlorite (100% w/w NaC102) will vary from the
stoichiometric ratio of 0.39:1 to as much as 1:1, dependent upon the alkalinity of the
water. Excess chlorine, above the stoichiometric requirement, should be limited to that
required to neutralise the alkalinity, otherwise any further excess chlorine will promote
chlorate (C103-) production and cause THMs to form if precursors are present. Some of
the alkalinity also reacts with the hydrochloric acid produced by the action of chlorine on
water which otherwise would have reduced the chlorine dioxide yield by about 20%. The
pH value should be about 4 and therefore for most waters the chlorine concentration
needs to be over 500 mg/1. In practice chlorine dioxide solution concentrations are
                                                           9.17 Use of chlor&e dioxide     447


maintained at less than 1 g/1 in open systems, and 10 g/1 in fully enclosed pressurised
systems.
   The acid process uses more sodium chlorite than the chlorine process; about 1.25 times
to produce the same amount of chlorine dioxide. Stoichiometrically 1.67 g of sodium
chlorite (100% w/w NaC102) and 0.54 g of HC1 are required to produce 1 g of chlorine
dioxide. In practice about 50% more sodium chlorite is required. Furthermore between
300-350% of the stoichiometric quantity of acid is required to lower the pH (to <_0.5) and
neutralise alkalinity and maximise the yield.
   Chlorine dioxide (C102) is most commonly used as a disinfectant in cases where
problems of taste and odour arise with chlorine, particularly those due to the presence of
phenols. 23 It is a powerful oxidant, but at the limited dose levels it can be used (because of
by products formed), its oxidation potential is not fully utilised. It is known to oxidise
iron (II) and manganese (II) 24 (see Section 8.12), and remove colour 25 and certain types of
tastes and odours. It does not produce THMs, nor oxidise THM precursors; nor does it
react with ammonia or phenols in water. In the USA it is primarily used as a substitute
pre-oxidant for chlorine at the inlet to the works for taste and odour control, colour
removal, pre-disinfection and iron and manganese oxidation because unlike chlorine it
does not produce THMs. 26 Its bactericidal efficiency is comparable with that of free
chlorine in the neutral pH range 27 but, unlike chlorine, its efficiency increases with
increasing pH. 25 Chlorine dioxide therefore has particular advantages for disinfecting
waters liable to produce chlorophenol tastes, or which have a high pH or which contain
substantial concentrations of ammonia.
   The principal drawback with chlorine dioxide use is the formation of chlorate (C103-)
and chlorite (C102-) in the generation process and in the water. Chlorates can be produced
by generating chlorine dioxide at too low pH and with high excess chlorine. At
concentrations less than 10 g/1 chlorine dioxide disproportionates* under alkaline and
acidic conditions to form chlorate and chlorite. In practice the disproportionate products
are kept to a minimum by maintaining the pH of the solution in the range 3.5-7.5.
Chlorates are also known to form by the exposure of water dosed with chlorine dioxide to
sunlight, by increased pH (such as in softening) or by the action of chlorite ion with free
residual chlorine in the contact tank and distribution system. Chlorite originates from the
reactants in the generation process and from the disproportionation of chlorine dioxide.
   As mentioned in connection with the production of hypochlorite solution by electrolysis
(see Section 9.15), chlorate is considered to be of health significance. 28'29 In the UK,
therefore, under the Water Supply Regulations 1989 (see Section 6.47), a limit has been set
for health reasons for the combined residual levels of chlorine dioxide, chlorite and
chlorate of 0.5 mg/1 as C102 in the water entering supply. The corresponding USEPA
value is 1.0 mg/1 as C102. These values would restrict the chlorine dioxide dosage to about
0.75 mg/1 (UK) and 1.5 rag/1 (USA). The WHO have a provisional Guideline Value of
0.2 mg/1 for chlorite. 3 These relatively low limits have curtailed the use of chlorine dioxide
in practice.



*Disproportionation is the transformation of a compound into two dissimilar compounds by a
process involving a simultaneous oxidation and reduction.
448    Disinfection of water

   When used as a pre-oxidant it is seldom applied at a dose greater than 1.0-1.5 mg/1. At a
dose of 1.0 mg/1, chlorate ion in the treated water would be in the range 0.2-0.4 mg/1.
Chlorates can be removed by ferrous chloride and it is reported that 6-7 mg/1 ferrous
chlorides as Fe per 2.5 mg/1 of chlorine dioxide dose was effective in reducing the
combined species concentration to 0.2 mg/1. 26'3~ Sodium bisulphite or sulphur dioxide is
effective in removing chlorite ions; 95% removal efficiency in the pH range 5-6.5. Due to
restrictions on by-products in the finished water chlorine dioxide is rarely used as the
primary disinfectant.



9.18     Calcium hypochlorite powder ('chloride of lime')
Calcium hypochlorite in powder form, commonly known as 'bleaching powder' or
chloride of lime is widely used in the less developed countries of the world for disinfection
of water supplies.
   The bleaching powder contains 30-35 % w/w of releasable chlorine and excess lime. The
powder has a bulk density of about 400 kg/m 3 and has the advantage that sealed drums of
it can be held in store for long periods without serious loss of chlorine. It is best to make
up a solution in batches. A measured quantity of bleaching powder is mixed in a tank of
water and allowed to settle. The supernatant containing chlorine is drawn off and diluted
to the dosing concentration in a storage tank. The supernatant is injected into the water to
be treated by means of a positive displacement reciprocating pump of the diaphragm type
or constant level feeders (see Ref. 72 in Chapter 7). In large plants, saturators may be used
(see Section 7.20). The strong chlorine solutions resulting rapidly lose their chlorine
content if exposed to air or sunlight; hence they need to be made up daily or every second
day. Likewise a drum of bleaching powder will begin to lose its chlorine content once
opened.
   The strength of the solution used depends on the quantity of water to be treated daily
and the capacity of the injection apparatus. Taking the powder to contain 33% by weight
of chlorine, a 1% w/v C12 (10 g C12/1) solution would be made up by mixing 30 kg of
powder in 1000 litres of water. A 100 litres of this 'batch' would be sufficient to give
 1.0 mg/1 in 1000 m 3 of water. The solution strength needs checking regularly because the
chlorine content of the powder may not be known, the batching procedures used may not
be very exact, and solutions left standing may lose substantial chlorine. A sample needs to
be diluted by a factor of 5000-10 000 to determine the chlorine content of the solution
using a chlorine comparator.


9.19     Calcium hypochlorite granules
Calcium hypochlorite granules contain 65-70% w/w chlorine and can be supplied in 45/
50 kg drums with plastic liners. It has a bulk density of about 800 kg/m 3. The granules are
readily soluble and a standard strength solution can be made up for dosing. A 1% w/v C12
(10 g C12/1) solution is prepared by mixing 15 kg of granules containing 65% w/w C12 in
1000 litres of water. They give a clearer solution than chloride of lime powder but, after
initial standing, the supernatant of a 0.5% w/v chlorine solution will still contain up to 1%
suspended matter. It is preferable to use water with low alkalinity, such as rainwater, for
making up the solution as the use of a hard water results in some precipitation of its
                                                                     9.21 Chlorine tablets      449


hardness. As with solutions made from chloride of lime, the chlorine content will reduce
substantially in a few days if left exposed to the air.


9.20        Sodium hypochlorite solution
Sodium hypochlorite solution is available as a household disinfectant ('bleach') under
many brand names. It can be produced by electrolysis of brine (see Section 9.15) and, as
used for waterworks purposes, is a clear solution containing 14-15% w/w of available
chlorine. It can be supplied in small containers or in bulk, but loses its chlorine strength
when exposed to atmosphere or sunlight (for properties and storagesee Table 7.7). The
rate of decomposition increases with increased temperature as shown in Table 9.4.
   Dosing of hypochlorite can be by positive displacement reciprocating diaphragm
pumps. The use of sodium hypochlorite solution on a plant scale is expensive because of
the costs of packaging and freight for the relatively large volumes of solution required. The
cost rules out its use in developing countries, but elsewhere it is used in place of chlorine
gas for safety reasons.
   Attention has to be paid to limiting the introduction of chlorate and bromate to the
treated water, as mentioned in connection with the on-site production of sodium
hypochlorite by electrolysis (see Section 9.15). Commercial hypochlorite of 15% w/w
chlorine, produced using the membrane process contains chlorates (as C103-) and
bromates (as BrO3-) of about 0.25 and 0.035%, respectively, by weight of the product.


9.21     Chlorine tablets
Chlorine tablets are available in a range of sizes and chlorine content. They are normally
too expensive to use on a large scale, but are useful in certain circumstances for the
chlorination of small supplies. The smallest tablets contain 2.5 mg of chlorine and are used
by travellers for the disinfection of drinking water; they are designed for rapid release of
chlorine. The larger tablets, containing 10 g or more of chlorine, are frequently used for
disinfection of mains and tanks. They are designed for slow release of chlorine over several
hours to disinfect mains and tanks.




Table 9.4  Decomposition of chlorine in sodium hypochlorite of 14.5% w/w C12 due to age and
temperature

                     Chlorine content % w/w at solution temperatures
Time (weeks)          10~             15~              20~             25~              30~
1                     14.43           14.39            14.08            13.57           12.41
2                     14.39           14.08            13.57            12.41           10.88
4                     14.17           13.58            12.41            10.52            8.70
26                    11.72            9.54             7.00             4.5             2.59

Note. Tests were carried out in the dark, in the absence of metallic contaminants except traces of
iron, copper and nickel present in the product.
450    Disinfection of water


Ozone process of disinfection
9.22     Action of ozone
Ozone gas, 03, is a powerful oxidising agent widely used for disinfection and oxidation.
The bactericidal effect of ozone is rapid, the usual contact time being between 4 and 10
minutes with dosages of the order of 2-3 mg/1. It is also known to be more effective than
chlorine in killing viruses, cysts and oocysts (see Sections 9.5 and 7.43). The WHO
Guidelines 3 state: 'Ozone has been shown to be an effective viral disinfectant, preferably
for clean water, if residuals of 0.2-0.4 mg/litre are maintained for 4 minutes'. Therefore
the criterion adopted by European designers for disinfection is to maintain a free ozone
residual of 0.4 mg/1 for 4 minutes (i.e. Ct = 1.6 mg.min/1); this residual being the required
level after the initial ozone demand is satisfied. The US practice is to design for the Ct
values based on the inactivation of cysts and viruses given in the SWTR (see Section 9.5).
    WHO Guidelines do not define the t value whereas the European practice has been to
define t as the 'hydraulic' residence time (volume + mean flow). Ideally t should be the t~0
value which for ozone contactors could vary in the range 0.5-0.65 of the tT (see Section
9.5). According to USEPA 3~ since ozone uses more than one point of application in the
contactor, inactivation credits of l-log for viruses and 0.5-log for Giardia are given if
ozone residuals of 0.1 mg/1 and 0.3 mg/1, respectively, are maintained at the outlet of the
first cell of the contactor. Therefore following from Section 9.5 the maintenance of an
ozone residual of 0.3 mg/1 or greater at the outlet of the first cell of an ozone contactor
appreciably reduces the Ct required in the subsequent stages. For the method for
calculation of Ct values of the subsequent cells the reader is referred to the USEPA design
criteria. 31,32
    The contact chambers for ozonation for disinfection comprise a minimum of two stages
(each with two cells) in series. In the first stage, water is retained to satisfy the initial ozone
demand, sufficient ozone gas being introduced to ensure adequate free ozone residual for
disinfection in the water leaving this stage. The retention time in this first stage and the
ozone dose applied will vary according to the ozone demand. In the second stage,
disinfection is achieved, the stage being sized to give a Ct value of 1.6 mg.min/1 where the
contact time t is equal to 4 minutes and the ozone dose being controlled to maintain C =
0.4 mg/1 free ozone residual throughout or to suit any other criteria (e.g. USEPA). In the
third and final stage, ozone is allowed to decay, no ozone being normally dosed in this
stage. Most of the excess ozone after treatment may be removed by cascading the outlet
water. The remaining residual ozone could be removed by dosing sodium bisulphite which
is an ozone scavenger.
    The number of stages to be provided in a contactor is governed by the need to achieve
uniform flow and minimise short-circuiting. The greater the number of stages, the closer is
the flow regime to plug flow. For economic reasons the number of stages (each with two
cells) is usually limited to three with a maximum of four. The preferred flow configuration
 in each stage is one in which ozone gas, injected by diffusers in one cell, flows upwards
 counter-current to water flowing downwards. In the second cell of each stage the flow is
 reversed using underflow baffles to enable counter-current flow to be re-established in the
 first cell of the following stage (see Fig. 9.4). This provides good liquid-gas contact and
 helps to minimise short-circuiting. In some contactors each stage is provided with one cell,
 and counter-current and co-current flow configurations are used in alternate stages to
 minimise costs. When large water flows have to be treated it is necessary to divide the flow
Fig. 9.4   Ozone plant.
452   Disinfection of water

into several equal parallel streams. When hydrogen peroxide dosing is practised (peroxone
process, see Section 8.36), it is added to the inlet of the first cell in the second stage.
However, since the use of hydrogen peroxide leaves the water without any ozone residual,
when disinfection is also necessary the hydrogen peroxide is added after disinfection, to
the inlet of the third stage, with ozone being dosed into its first cell.
   Ozone oxidises many organic substances to less complex compounds (see Sections 8.33-
8.36). It oxidises colour and some organic substances responsible for taste and odour. It
also oxidises iron(II) and manganese(II) to form precipitates. It is useful for the
disinfection of a water containing a high amount of ammonia which would otherwise
require a heavy dose of chlorine. Ozone in conjunction with GAC filtration has been
found useful for the reduction of some pesticides in water. 33 Pre-ozonation results in
improved particle and turbidity removal in a coagulation process 34 and in sand and GAC
filtration. 35 To enhance coagulation, the ozone dose required is about 0.4 mg/mg total
organic carbon. 32
   It was thought that use of ozone might limit the formation of THMs by oxidation of
organic precursors in a water, but experiments have shown that ozone does not remove
organic matter but breaks it down into smaller, more bio-degradable compounds. Some of
these compounds react more readily with chlorine used for providing a residual, leading to
an increase rather than a decrease in the formation of disinfection by products such as
chloroacetic acid and chloro aldehydes and ketones during final chlorination. 33'36 These
organic by-products, being more biodegradable than their precursors, can provide
nutrients for biological growth and thus promote aftergrowth in the distribution system.
The potential health significance of the many by-products of ozone is still not well
understood. Among the identified by-products are formaldehyde, organic peroxides,
unsaturated aldehydes, epoxides, haloacetic acid, and the inorganic by-product bromate.
However the addition of biological activated carbon reactors (see Section 8.35) after
ozonation can remove a high proportion of the organic by-products, but not the inorganic
by-products such as bromates.
    Bromates are formed during ozonation of waters containing bromides and can be
minimised by optimising the ozone dose and the contact time to the minimum required,
leaving little or no ozone residual and improving the contactor design and operation.
Depression of pH to less than 7 minimises the bromate formation but would not be
economical for high alkalinity waters. 37 Addition of ammonia before ozonation reduces
bromate concentration through monobromoamine formation. 38 Hydrogen peroxide
(H202) dosed after ozonation decreases the bromate formation with the increase of its
dose. For maximum reduction, the weight ratio of H202:O3 would be greater than 2:1. 39
 Hydrogen peroxide is usually added immediately after the oxidation stage in the post-
 ozone contactor and would therefore prevent disinfection because it reacts with the
 residual ozone. Bromides are usually found in very small concentrations (<0.2 mg/1) in
 water and their removal (by ion exchange or reverse osmosis), is not cost effective. There
 are no proven methods in full scale operation for the removal of bromate after its
 formation.
    A disadvantage of ozone is that its half life in water is too short for it to be effective as a
 residual disinfectant in the distribution system. Consequently to provide a residual,
 chlorination, chloramination or chlorine dioxide dosing has to be used as a final stage of
 treatment.
                                                              9.23 Production o f ozone    453


9.23     Production of ozone
Ozone is produced on a commercial scale by passing air or oxygen through a silent
electrical discharge. A high voltage AC current is applied between two electrodes
separated by a dielectric and a narrow gap through which the air or oxygen to be ozonised
is passed. The gap width is a function of the feed gas, the dialectric material, and the power
supply's characteristics. Typical gap widths are between 0.5 and 3 mm. Electrical power
options commonly available for electrolysis are low frequency (50-60 Hz at 14-19 kV);
medium frequency (60-1000 Hz at 9-14 kV); and high frequency (greater than 1000 Hz
typically 5000-7000 Hz at 10 kV). Medium frequency generators are used primarily for
oxygen feed systems, they have a smaller discharge gap and allow higher ozone production
per tube. Low frequency systems have the simplest power supply. High frequency systems
have the advantage of low voltage and therefore few dielectric failures.
   In practice, the two electrodes are concentric tubes but may also be arranged as plates.
In concentric tube designs, the outer electrode is a stainless steel tube. The dielectric is a
glass or ceramic material, which can be plated onto the outside tube or the inner electrode.
Historically a glass tube with an inner metallised coating forms the inner electrode. A
typical ozone generator consists of several hundred of such tubes assembled in a large
vessel (see Fig. 9.4 and Plate 25). The high voltage is applied to the inner tube; the low
voltage is connected to the stainless steel outer tube. Approximately 90-95% of the energy
input appears as heat and must be removed by applying cooling water. Manufacturers
recommend that cooling water has a chloride content <30 mg/1 to minimise corrosion of
stainless steel. Depending on the temperature and the chloride content the cooling water
could be once-through type using filtered plant water or closed-circuit type which uses
water-cooled heat exchanger or refrigerated water chillers. The system capacity should be
adequate to limit the increase in gas stream temperature to less than 5~ The feed (air or
oxygen) to the ozoniser must be completely oil-free to prevent detonation (hydrocarbon
content < 10 ml/m3), dust free to a level better than 99% at 0.5 micron to reduce electrode
fouling and very dry; the normal requirement is that the feed should have a dew point
below -80~ to prevent sparking and formation of nitric acid. In the air feed to achieve
this dryness it is usual to both refrigerate the feed and pass it through a desiccant. The feed
should be cool with a temperature below 25~ and compressors or blowers used for the
feed must be o f the oil-free type. The diagram of an ozone plant is given in Fig. 9.4.
   With air as the feed, typical production is up to 4% w/w ozone in air (52.3 g O3/m 3 of air
at 0~ 1.013 bar). Air feed systems can be either low pressure (<2 bar g) or high pressure
(> 4 bar g). In a high pressure system most of the moisture can be removed in the
aftercooler and eliminates the need for a refrigerant dryer. High pressure systems are
commonly used in packaged ozone generators.
   With oxygen as the feed typical production is about 10% w/w ozone in oxygen (149 g
O3/m 3 of oxygen at 0~ 1.013 bar). Methods of supplying oxygen include use of liquid
oxygen (LOX), delivered in bulk to site by tanker or pipeline, on-site production of LOX,
or on-site generation of gaseous oxygen (GOX). LOX delivered in bulk is almost 100%
pure oxygen with a dew point lower than -80~ and therefore does not normally require
further treatment. It is stored on site in a vacuum insulated storage tank. Vaporisers which
use ambient air, warm water, steam or electrical energy convert LOX to gas for use in the
ozone generators.
   LOX is produced on-site in pre-engineered packaged plants with capacities > 20 t/day
by cryogenic air separation where liquefaction of air is followed by fractional distillation
454   Disinfection of water

to separate oxygen and nitrogen. This method is commonly used in commercial gas
production plants where both oxygen and nitrogen are required as products. Oxygen
concentration in the product gas is usually greater than 95%.
    More commonly GOX is produced on site by pressure swing adsorption (PSA) or
vacuum swing adsorption (VSA) processes. These comprise of one to three vessels
containing a synthetic zeolite material which selectively adsorbs nitrogen from the air at
elevated pressures allowing oxygen to pass through. Adsorbent also removes moisture,
CO2 and hydrocarbons. Once the bed is saturated, it is regenerated by subjecting the bed
to a lower pressure to release nitrogen. A continuous stream of oxygen is maintained by
switching the beds periodically at 30 second to 2 minute intervals. In PSA, adsorption is at
1-3 bar and regeneration is at atmospheric pressure whilst in VSA adsorption is at 0.2-1
bar and regeneration is under vacuum. The processes produce oxygen of purity 90-94%
with low hydrocarbon content (<10 ml/m 3) and dew point lower than -60~                    If the
system has less than three adsorbers an oxygen buffer storage vessel is usually provided.
For VSA systems an oxygen booster compressor would be required for feeding the ozone
generator. In general bulk LOX is the best economic choice for oxygen capacities up to 20
t/day. Absorptive processes are suitable for small to intermediate capacities (PSA" 5-20 t/
day and VSA 20-60 t/day) and cryogenic plants are best for capacities of more than 60 t/
day.
    The output of ozone generators increases with the increase in oxygen concentration,
improved quality of the feed gas (i.e. dryness, hydrocarbon content and dust content),
decrease in the gas discharge gap between the electrodes and the increase in the frequency
of the current applied to the dielectric.
    The specific energy consumption for ozone generation is dependent upon a number of
factors and is in the range 20-27 kWh per kg O3 produced for low pressure air feed plant,
and about 15 kWh per kg O3 for oxygen feed plants. Specific energy consumption for on-
site oxygen production processes are about 0.3-0.35, 0.3-0.4 and 0.4-0.45 kWh/kg O2 for
cryogenic, VSA and PSA, respectively. Ozone production plants require cooling water
between 1.5 and 3 ma/kg O3 produced.
    Ozone must be transferred from the gas phase to water efficiently to minimise losses.
Therefore the design of the ozone-water contacting units is critical to the transfer process.
In ozone contactors for disinfection fine bubble diffusers are commonly used to transfer
 ozone into water. They are either porous rod, dome or disc type and require submergence
depths between 5.5-7.5 m. Transfer efficiencies achieved are usually greater than 93%.
They are operated under the ozone generator discharge pressure. Clogging of the diffuser
 pores due to the precipitation of iron and manganese is a disadvantage and tendency to
 foul precludes their use in pre-ozonation applications if raw water suspended solids
 concentrations are high.
    Alternatively, transfer is either by turbine mixers, static radial diffusers, venturis, or in-
 line static mixers. 4~ The turbine mixers aspirate ozone-feed gas into the water and eject the
 resulting mixture into the contactor in a manner which encourages mixing with the bulk
 liquid. 32 In some designs the mixer motor is submerged. They require up to ten times the
 energy required for bubble diffusers. In static radial diffusers about 10% of the water flow
 is pumped to a submerged radial diffuser where it meets the ozone gas stream and divides
 this up into very fine bubbles when injected into the contactor through the diffuser head. 41
 If a pressurised water flow is available, a vacuum can be created through the throat of a
 venturi to draw ozone gas into solution, resulting in excellent ozone transfer at the cost of
                                                             9.24 Ultra-violet radiation   455


pressure decrease for the treated flow. In-line static mixers are similar to those described in
Section 7.12. If the flow into the contactor has a turn down of less than 2:1 a single in-line
static mixer in the main pipe is adequate. If the turn down in flow is greater than 2:1, the
main line static mixer needs to be supported by a side stream static mixer in a pumped
recirculation system with ozone injected into the side stream. 42 The side stream flow is
about 10% of the main stream flow. The main line static mixer requires about 2 m
headloss and it should be followed by a contactor for oxidation and disinfection reactions
to complete.
   About 5-10% of the ozone introduced into the water remains in the spent gas at the top
of the contactors. A destructor is required to convert unused ozone to oxygen for safe
discharge. This conversion can be achieved by heating the gas to 350~ at which
temperature decomposition takes place in 5 seconds, or by heating the gas 5-10~ above
the inlet temperature (to decrease relative humidity) and passing it through a catalyst to
accelerate decomposition. The higher temperature thermal system usually incorporates a
heat recovery system; its main drawbacks are a longer start-up time and increased energy
use. The catalytic system on the other hand can be prone to fouling.
   Ozone is toxic and a dangerous gas to handle; its odour perception threshold is less than
0.02 ml/m 3. The 8-hour exposure limit is 0.1 ml/m3.19 Ozone leak detectors must be
installed with facilities to shut down generators in the event of a leak. Other precautions
must be taken in the design and layout to minimise hazards to health. 43 In addition
ozonised air is highly corrosive in the presence of moisture; hence piping and other
equipment must be of special materials, mostly stainless steel grade 316 S13. (British
Standard BS 970 Part 1 or BS 1449 Part 2). Electrical plant and insulations may also need
special protection against the possibility of ozone leakage.


Other disinfection practices
9.24 Ultra-violet radiation
Ultra-violet (UV) radiation is suitable for the disinfection of waters which are free of
suspended matter, turbidity and colour. It is more effective against bacteria than viruses
and bacterial spores. ~3 UV radiation lies between 15 and 400 nm* wavelength, but UV-C
radiation required for disinfection is achieved in the range 200-280 nm peaking between
240 and 280 nm with a maximum of 265 nm, 44 falling to zero at 320 nm. The mechanism of
bacterial kill is not fully understood but it is believed that the UV radiation causes
irreversible inactivation of the micro-organism's DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) molecules
rendering them unable to replicate. The degree of kill depends inter alia upon wavelength,
the incident intensity (mW/cm 2) and contact time. UV dose (mWs/cm 2) is the product of
UV-irradiance (incident intensity) (mW/cm 2) and the time of exposure (seconds) of the
water to the radiation. The UV penetration depends upon the transmittance of the water
and is highest in waters with very low natural colour; the concentration of other organic
matter that respond to UV adsorption at 253.7 nm and the turbidity (<1.0 NTU) which
scatters UV. Iron and manganese should be absent in raw water because they form a
coating on the quartz tube; iron may also originate from the pipework. If a coating is
present wipers could be fitted to clean the quartz. UV is best suited to groundwaters which
require disinfection only. The exposure time for disinfection varies between 0.5-5 seconds

"1 nm   -   10-9 m.
456   Disinfection of water

depending on the level of micro-organisms present and the optical transmissivity of the
water. The minimum UV dosage level for effective bacterial disinfection ( > 3-log removal)
is generally agreed as 16 mWs/cm 2 at the reference wavelength of 253.7 nm which is the
dosage specified by the US Department of Health. When viricidal action is also required,
dosage levels of 30-40 mWs/cm 2 are considered more appropriate. At dosage levels
greater than or equal to 40 mWs/cm 2 a 4-log reduction of bacteria and viruses is
achieved. 45 The germicidal output of UV lamps slowly declines in use due to lamp ageing
and fouling of the lamp sleeves. Typically lamp life is about 4000 hours for medium
pressure lamps with a loss of initial intensity of about 30%. Low pressure lamps usually
have an effective life of about 8000 hours with 60% loss of initial intensity. In sizing units
this loss must be taken into account.
   Recent work 46 in the USA has shown that UV is very effective at inactivating
Cryptosporidium oocysts and 4-log inactivation at doses not exceeding 40 mWs/cm 2 using
medium pressure lamps have been demonstrated. Other UV technology has been
developed which provides much higher UV exposure than conventional systems. One such
device which subjects Cryptosporidium oocysts to a total UV dosage of 8000 mWs/cm 2 in
two passes using low pressure lamps is known to achieve greater than 4-log inactivation. 47
   UV radiation is produced by an electrical discharge (arc) in a low or medium pressure
ionised, mercury vapour atmosphere. Lamps are made from fused silica quartz and are
physically and thermally isolated from the water by an additional, UV transparent, quartz
sleeve. The complete assembly is mounted in a stainless steel cylindrical chamber. The
water to be disinfected is passed through the annular space between the quartz and the
stainless steel tubes. A diagram of a UV chamber is given in Fig. 9.5 (see Plate 25).
   Low pressure lamps are used in low flow or domestic applications. They produce a
monochromatic output at a wave length of 253.7 nm and deliver about 85-90% of the
energy input at this value. For medium pressure lamps only about a third of the energy
input is delivered between 240 and 280 nm but the energy intensity is about 50 times
greater than that for low pressure lamps. 45 Low pressure lamps require considerably less
energy than medium pressure lamps and lasts up to 2.5 times longer. 48 The energy
consumption of UV radiation using low pressure lamps is typically of the order of 10-
20 Wh/m 3 of water treated and up to twice that for medium pressure lamps.


                   Arc-tube          UV monitor           Temperature            Outlet




                                9          \        U                             ' ~                 -!&.         "



                          ..................................................................... ~E~           Terminal


            I~            ~                Quartz sleeve                 Stainless                           Arc-tube ~
L_~              13,~ ~                                                  steel jacket                        cable ' ~
                  Inlet

Fig. 9.5 UV treatment chamber (as Hanovia Ltd).
                                           9.26 Disinfection of water mains and tanks    457


   A typical system consists of one or several lamps per chamber with flow more
commonly parallel, but in some cases perpendicular, to the axes of the lamps. A plant can
consist of several parallel trains, each train containing one or more chambers in series. The
number connected in series is determined by the dose required and the retention time; the
number in parallel is governed by the water flow to be treated and includes standby
facilities. Each chamber is provided with a UV monitor to ensure the correct level of UV-
irradiance (mW/cm 2) is applied and to compensate automatically for deterioration in
water quality or build up of deposits on the lamp. In contrast to chemical disinfection UV
disinfection at the applied low doses in the effective wavelength range is not known to
have any effect on the chemical composition of the water. 49 At wavelengths of less than
240 nm however it can enhance the formation of by-products by photolysis of organic and
inorganic contaminants in the water. 44 An example is the formation of nitrite when nitrate
is present in water. This is a particular risk at high disinfection doses and when flow
through UV chamber is intermittent. The problem could be eliminated in the manufacture
of UV sources by using quartz that suppress these short wavelengths. Phosphates used for
plumbosolvency control should be dosed after UV application. Degradation of organic
compounds could be achieved with high energy inputs (see Section 8.36). UV does not
produce a disinfectant residual and if this is required chlorination or chloramination must
be practised.


9.25    Boiling water
Boiling water is an extremely useful process for disinfecting water because boiling kills
bacteria, viruses, ova and cysts present in polluted water. In an emergency it may be
necessary for a water undertaking to advise consumers to boil all water used for drinking
or cooking or brushing teeth. It is reported to be equally effective whether the water is
clear or cloudy, relatively pure or highly contaminated (though obviously contaminated or
cloudy water should be used only as a 'last resort'). When a boiled water notice is issued by
a water undertaking because a normally safe supply is contaminated with micro-
organisms, it is sufficient to bring the water to boil and the use of electric kettles with
automatic switch-off is acceptable. 5~ In the UK, immunocompromised individuals are
advised to boil all drinking water from any source. 5~ For the complete sterilisation of a
polluted water the WHO recommends bringing the water to 'rolling boil' (large bubbles
continuously coming to the surface) and then maintaining this for at least 1 minute for a
clear water. At high elevations 1 minute extra time should be given for every 1000 m above
sea level because of the lower temperature at which boiling takes place. 5~ Turbid water
should preferably be filtered through a clean cloth before boiling. Alternatively the water
should be boiled for up to 5 minutes. Boiled water can become recontaminated once it has
cooled and therefore should be stored in a clean closed container.


Disinfection of waterworks facilities
9.26 Disinfection of water mains and tanks
The U K recommended practices for disinfecting mains have been set out in Technical
Guidance Notes published by U K Water. 52
  Before a new or renovated main is put into service it should first be swabbed clear of dirt
and debris with a foam swab and flushed with water. It should then be filled with water
458    D&infectionof water

containing about 20 mg/1 of free chlorine and allowed to stand for 16 hours, after which it
should be flushed and recharged with mains water and allowed to stand for a further 24
hours. Samples should then be taken from a number of points along the main and at its
extremities and, if samples are found to be free of coliform organisms and give satisfactory
results for residual chlorine, taste, odour and appearance, the main can be brought into
service. All service pipes connected to the main should be flushed out. Alternatively a
renovated main may be disinfected for a minimum period of 30 minutes with 50 mg/1 of
free chlorine followed by flushing, filling with mains water and sampling. A similar
treatment is advised for an operation which involves cutting the main, and where there is a
risk of contamination from water in the trench or other foul water (e.g. from sewer). For
repairs to a live main which has to be cut with minor soiling at opening, all surfaces which
will come in contact with the drinking water are to be cleaned down with water containing
1000 mg/1 free chlorine. In all cut main repairs, following disinfection and flushing the
main must only be returned to service when bacteriological and other qualitative tests have
proved satisfactory.
   Tanks and service reservoirs are usually hosed down with strong jets of clean water and
the walls and floor are then brushed down with a chlorine solution containing not less
than 20 mg/1 chlorine. Initially a reservoir is half filled with water containing at least
0.5 mg/1 chlorine and, after standing for 24 hours, a sample of the water is tested for
coliform organisms. If the sample fails, the chlorine dose of the inlet water is increased to
1.0 mg/1 and fill the reservoir, the water being retested after a further 24 hours. If coliforms
are absent, the reservoir can be filled with water having 0.5 mg/1 chlorine, which is
resampled and tested when the reservoir is full. Personnel entering a service reservoir
which has been emptied for inspection, etc. should scrub their footware in a tray
containing 1000 mg/1 chlorine immediately before entering the reservoir. Normally
chlorine tablets, bleaching powder, calcium hypochlorite granules or sodium hypochlorite
are used as chlorine sources, but for large new transmission mains and reservoirs chlorine
water from a gas chlorinator might be injected into the filling water. All test water
containing chlorine should be dechlorinated before disposal; chemicals available include
sodium bisulphite, sulphur dioxide, sodium sulphite and sodium thiosulphate.


9.27     Control of aftergrowth in distribu:tion mains
Considerable aftergrowth may occur in distribution mains especially with nutrient rich
waters. Slime, iron and manganese deposits, algae, and corrosion products may foster
growth of bacteria and other forms of life within mains as biofilms which are resistant to
control measures. 53 In such systems it is often difficult to retain any residual chlorine in the
water. No practicable level of residual chlorine will prevent problems of aftergrowth if
algae, residual iron or aluminium floc, suspended solids or substantial amounts of
dissolved organic matter (see Section 8.35) are allowed to remain in a treated water.
Phosphates used in plumbosolvency control can also contribute to aftergrowth. Swabbing
followed by slug dosing with a heavy dose of chlorine passed slowly along the mains
affected is a short-term remedy, but the permanent cure lies in optimising the treatment
process and thus improving the quality of the water distributed. 54 In extensive distribution
systems carrying nutrient-rich waters it may be necessary to adopt 'booster chlorination',
i.e. the addition of further chlorine or chloramine to the water at some key distribution
point or points in the system, usually at the inlet or outlet of some service reservoir.
                         9.28 Disinfestation of distribution mains, wells and boreholes   459


Chloramination has also become more common, where there is a need to control biofilms
and avoid exceeding chlorination by-product (THMs) concentrations. This has become
essential in some utilities. 55 As noted in Section 6.63 weekly bacteriological testing of
water in service reservoirs is required under the UK Water Regulations.


9.28     Disinfestation of distribution mains, wells and boreholes
Some distribution systems can be become infested with small aquatic animals, especially
systems with old mains carrying treated lowland surface waters which contain
considerable organic matter. The most commonly experienced animals are - Asellus the
'water louse'; Gammarus the 'freshwater shrimp'; nais worms and nematode worms.
Occasionally the larvae of midges and flies may be found, having passed through filter
beds or gained entry to a service reservoir. Many other small aquatic organisms can
occasionally be present. The flushing of mains and chlorination is largely ineffective where
animal growth is prevalent. The ability of the animals to leave reproductive spores or to
reproduce from fragments means that reinfestation tends to be rapid: hence disinfestation
is necessary. Formerly pyrethin was used for this purpose, but nowadays permethrin, a
synthetic pyrethroid, is used. The application has to be most carefully controlled; the
average and maximum concentration must not exceed 10 and 20 ~g/1, respectively, under
the UK Water Regulations 56 and must not be applied for longer than 7 days. The
Secretary of State must be notified prior to the use; and dialysis users, aquarium owners,
beekeepers and hospitals must be forewarned of the intention and, if necessary, assisted to
obtain temporary alternative supplies whilst the disinfestation is proceeding. 57
   In cases where corrosion of the main is the cause of high turbidity or coloured water
flushing and pigging with polyurethane foam swabs have been shown to be effective. 58
   In mains iron bacteria may develop, and occasionally other types of bacteria may
multiply into substantial colonies, of which one of the aeromonas strains, Aeromonas
hydrophila, is believed capable of causing gastroenteritis. 59 The bacterial infestation of
mains can usually be dealt with by flushing and swabbing mains, and then chlorinating
them. This has usually to be done in sections when, as is likely, a whole system is affected.
Maintenance of an enhanced chlorine residual can assist in preventing regrowth, but this
practice may be inhibited by the need to keep THMs below the permitted maximum (see
Section 6.21). In the case of iron bacteria in mains, the proper remedy is to revise the
treatment of the water to remove the iron or, if the bacteria grow because of deterioration
of old iron mains, relining them is effective.
   Iron bacteria are particularly prone to develop in wells and boreholes drawing water
from ferruginous formations. The bacteria are sessile i.e. attach themselves to a surface,
and the majority produce large masses of extra-cellular covering material in the form of
slime which clings to well screens and borehole linings. Often the presence of large iron
bacterial growths remains unevidenced until part of the slime detaches and is discovered in
the water, or the yield of the well or borehole falls off because of clogging of screens. The
slimes protect the bacteria against any biocide, hence physical removal of the slimes is
necessary. Pumps and rising mains in wells and boreholes can be withdrawn and cleaned.
But to clean well screens, surging, jetting, chemical applications, or steam injection may
have to be adopted. Prevention of regrowth in well screens and borehole linings after
physical cleaning may have to comprise slug-dosing with chlorine and then flushing.
Chlorine should never be applied direct to a well or borehole; this prevents knowledge of
460       Disinfection of water

the degree of pollution of the water and may encourage corrosion of the well or borehole
lining and of the pump inserted. The continuous application of chlorine may also be
inadvisable since it will tend to precipitate the iron in solution.



References
     Whitlock E. A. The Application of Chlorine in the Treatment of Water. JWWE, Jan.
     1953, p. 12.
     Butterfield C. H. et al. US Public Health Reports 58, 59, 61, 1943-46; also JA WWA,
      .




     40, 1948, p. 1305.
     WHO, Guidelines for Drinking-Water Quality, Vol. 1, Recommendations, 2nd edn.
      .




     WHO, Geneva, 1993.
     White G. C. Handbook of Chlorination, 2nd edn. Van Nostrand Reinhold, New York,
      ~




     1992.
     WHO, Disinfection of Rural and Small-Community Water Supplies, WRc, Medmen-
      .




     ham, England, 1989.
     Stevenson D. G. Water Treatment Unit Processes. Imperial College Press, London,
      .




     1998, p. 96.
     USEPA, National Primary Drinking Water Regulations: Filtration, Disinfection,
      .




     Turbidity, Giardia lamblia, Viruses, Legionella and Heterotrophic Bacteria. Federal
     Regulation 54:124:27486, 29 June, 1989, and see Reference 31.
     Falconer R. A. and Tebbutt T. H. Y. A Theoretical and Hydraulic Model Study of a
     Chlorine Contact Tank. Proc ICE, Part 2, 81(6), 1986, pp. 255-276.
     Stevenson D. G. The Design of Disinfection Contact Tanks. JCIWEM, 9(2), 1995,
      .




     pp. 146-152.
 10. Dawson M. Cleaning Up with Disinfection Design Software. Water Treatment and
     Supply, 11, 1998, pp. 14-15.
 11. Poynter S. F. B., Slade J. S. and Jones H. H. The Disinfection of Water with Special
     Reference to Viruses. JSWTE, 22, 1973, pp. 194-206.
 12. Scarpino P. V. et al. A Comparative Study of the Inactivation of Viruses in Water by
     Chlorine. Water Research, August 1972, p. 959.
 13. WHO. Guidelines,for Drinking Water Quality, Vol. 2, Health Criteria and Other
     Supporting Information, 2nd edn, Geneva, 1996.
 14. Smith H. V. et al. The Effect of Free Chlorine on the Viability of Cryptosporidium
     Oocysts. WRC report PRU 2023-M, 1989.
 15. Smith D. J. The Evolution of an Ozone Process at Littleton Water Treatment Works.
     JIWEM, 4(4), 1990, pp. 361-370.
 16. Lieu N. I. et al. Optimising Chloramine Disinfection for the Control of Nitrification.
     JA WWA, 85(2), 1993, p. 84.
 17. Palin A. T. Chemical Aspects of Chlorine. JIWE, IV(7), 1950, pp. 565-581.
 18. Health & Safety Executive. Safety Advice for Bulk Chlorine Installations, HS/G28,
     HMSO, London, 1999.
 19. Health & Safety Executive. Occupational Exposure Limits, Guidance Note EH40/92,
     HMSO, London, March 1998 (published annually).
 20. Health & Safety Executive. Safe Handling of Chlorine from Drums and Cylinders.
     Guidance Note HS/G40 (rev.), HMSO, London, 1999.
                                                                       References   461


21. Control of Major-Accident Hazards Involving Dangerous Substances (COMAH),
    Council Directive 96/82/EC, Official Journal 14.1.97.
22. Health & Safety Executive. Fire and Explosion Hazards at Electrochlorination Plant.
    Document No. HSE 490/11, Nov. 1987.
23. Walker, G. S. et al. Chlorine Dioxide for Taste and Odour Control. JA WWA, 78(3),
     1986.
24. Knocke W. R. et al. Kinetics of Manganese and Iron Oxidation by Potassium
    Permanganate and Chlorine Dioxide. JA WWA, 83(6), 1991, pp. 80-87.
25. Aieta E. C. and Berg J. A Review of Chlorine Dioxide in Water Treatment. JA WWA,
    78(6), 1986, pp. 62-72.
26. Rittmann D. D. Can You Have Your Cake And Eat It Too With Chlorine Dioxide?
     Water Engineering & Management, April 1997, pp. 30-35.
27. Bernarde M. A. et al. Efficiency of Chlorine Dioxide as a Bactericide. Applied
    Microbiology, 13(9), 1965, p. 776.
28. Lykins B. S. et al. Concerns With Using Chlorine Dioxide Disinfection in the USA. J
     Water SRT, Aqua, 39(6) 1990, pp. 376-386.
29. Condie L. W. Toxicological Problems Associated With Chlorine Dioxide. JA WWA,
    78(6), 1986, pp. 73-78.
30. Hurst G. H. and Knocke W. R. Evaluating Ferrous Ion for Chlorite Removal.
    JA WWA, 89(8), 1997, pp. 98-105.
31. USEPA, Guidance Manual for Compliance with Filtration and Disinfection Require-
    ments for Public Water Systems Using Surface Water Sources, Appendix O, Guidance
    to predict performance of ozone disinfection system. Oct. 1990.
32. Langlais B. et al. (eds). Ozone in Water Treatment, Application and Engineering.
    AWWA Research Foundation, Lewis Publication, Michigan, 1991, p. 414.
33. Foster D. M., Rachwal A. J. and White S. L. New Treatment Processes for Pesticides
    and Chlorinated Organics Control in Drinking Water. JIWEM, 5(4), 1991, pp. 466-
    477.
34. Tobiason J. E. et al. Effects of Ozonation on Optimal Coagulant Dosing in Drinking
    Water Treatment. J Water SRT-Aqua, 44(3), 1995, pp. 142-150.
35. Bourgine F. P. et al. The Effect of Ozonation on Particle Removal in Drinking
    Water. JCIWEM, 12(3), 1998, pp. 170-174.
36. Proceedings, Seminar on Ozone in UK Water Treatment Practice, Papers by Hyde and
    Zabel, and Greene et al. IWES Sept 1984.
37. Siddigui M. S. et al. Bromate Ion Formation: A Critical Review. JA WWA, 87(10),
    1995, pp. 58-70.
38. Ozekin K. et al. Molecular Ozone and Radical Pathways of Bromate Formation
    During Ozonation. J Environmental Eng ASCE, 124(5), 1998, pp. 456-462.
39. Kruithof J. C. and Meijers R. T. Bromate Formation by Ozonation and Advanced
    Oxidation and Potential Options in Drinking Water Treatment. Water Supply, 13(2),
    1995, pp. 93-103.
40. Davidson C. et al. New Concepts in Ozone Systems at North Surrey W a t e r - Design,
    Construction and Early Operating Experience. Paper to SE Branch of CIWEM, Dec.
    1997.
41. Anon. Ozonia Radial Diffuser. Ozonia Product Information, Zurich, 1994.
462   Disinfection of water

 42. Boisdon V. et al. The Effect of Static Mixer on Mass Transfer in a New Design of
     Ozone Reactor. 12th Worm Congress, International Ozone Association, 15-18 May
     1995, Lille, France.
 43. Health and Safety Executive, Ozone Health Hazards and Precautionary Measures,
     Guidance Note EH 38 (revised), HMSO, London, 1996.
 44. Von Sonntag C. and Schuchmann H. P. UV Disinfection of Drinking Water and By-
     Product Formation: Some Basic Considerations. J Water SRT-Aqua, 41(2), 1992, pp.
     67-74.
 45. Hoyer O. Testing Performance and Monitoring of UV Systems for Drinking Water
     Disinfection. Water Supply, 16(1/2), 1998, Madrid, pp. 419-442.
 46. Bukhari Z. et al. Medium Pressure UV for Oocyst Inactivation. JAWWA, 91(3),
     1999, pp. 86-94.
 47. Dyksen J. E. et al. Cost of Advanced UV for Inactivating Crypto. JA WWA, 90(9),
     1998, pp. 103-111.
 48. Degremont, Water Treatment Handbook, 6th edn, Lavoisier, Paris, 1991, p. 911.
 49. Cairns W. L. UV Technology for Water Supply Treatment. Water Supply, 13(3/4),
     Osaka, 1995, pp. 211-214.
 50. Cryptosporidium in Water Supplies. Third Report of the Group of Experts, HMSO,
     London, 1998.
 51. WHO, Guidelines for Drinking Water Quality, Vol. 3, Surveillance and Control of
     Community Supplies. WHO, Geneva, 1997.
 52. UK Water, Technical Guidance Notes 1 to 7. UK Water, October 1998.
 53. Fleming H. C. Biofilms in Drinking Water System. GWF Wasser/Abwasser, 139(13),
     1998, pp. 65-72.
 54. Mouchet P. et al. Physico-Chemical Degradative Changes in Water While in the
     Distribution System. Techniques, Sciences, Methods, 6, 1992, pp. 299-306.
 55. Norton C. D. and Le Chevallier M. W. Chloramination, Its Effect on Distribution
     Water Quality. JA WWA, 89(7), 1997, pp. 66-77.
 56. List of Substances, Products and Processes Approved under Regulations 25 and 26 of
     the Water Supply (Water Quality) Regulations, 1989, HMSO, London.
 57. WRc. Permethrin for the Control of Animals in Water, Technical Report TP 145,
     1980.
 58. Smith G. Aruba. A Case Study in Pipeline Maintenance. Water & Wastewater Int.,
     1(3), 1986, pp. 4-5 and 7.
 59. Edge J. C. and Finch P. E. Observations on Bacterial Aftergrowth in Water Supply
     Distribution Systems. JIWEM, Aug. 1987, p. 104.
                                             10
                                  Hydraulics

10.1 The energy equation of fluid flow
A fluid moves, in accordance with Newton's laws, under the action of external forces. If
there is a net force acting on an element of the fluid, then that element will either accelerate
or decelerate depending on the direction of that force; or, if the forces are in balance, then
the element will remain at rest or at the same velocity. There is a resistance to motion,
however, in the form of drag on that element of fluid and, in moving, energy is expended
in overcoming that drag. This expenditure of energy appears in the form of turbulence in
the water created by the drag of the surfaces of the conduit and by any obstructions or
changes to the shape and direction of the conduit. As the eddies of turbulence decay, their
kinetic energy is transmitted to the motion of individual water molecules, so the
temperature of the water increases by a very slight amount, scarcely detectable and too
small to be of any practical use. The balance of energy remaining is that in which the
engineer is interested, because it is this which determines the subsequent level, pressure,
and kinetic energy of flow.
   The energy of a unit mass p of water can be expressed as
         E = pu2/2 +    p    +   pgz
             kinetic pressure potential                                                  (10.1)
             energy   energy   energy
where u is the velocity of the water, p its pressure and z its height above some given datum.
For convenience this expression is divided by pg so that the energy and pressure are
expressed in terms of a height, or 'head' of water to give the expression in the form:
                    t"/2
        E    H=    +h+z                                                                  (102)
        pg -    ~g

For flow between two points, A and B, as shown in Fig. 10.1
        HA = HB + HL

where HL is the energy head lost by the water flowing from A to B.
  Hence

        u]
        2g h +zA           -- ~g + hB + zB + HL                                          (10.3)

  This is the general form of the energy equation and is fundamental to almost all
hydraulic calculations. It will be necessary to return to it many times.
  This general energy equation is also referred to as the modified Bernoulli equation.
Bernoulli's equation itself, which is one of the most widely quoted equations in fluid
464   Hydraulics

                                            Energy at AA'
                          x          _/_                                           B'
          m       -- ~         ___            -- --                                                   ~ Energy lost H E
          2g ~            !          -- J    ................                      !                  t in moving
                                       E~nergy line per unit mass of water - - -   I --"         I j from A to B




                    OA    I                                                        I
   Unit mass              i
   of water
   at A                                          Drag on moving water                   9        PB
                                                                                   I;                    Unit mass
                                             ~       ~                             I                     of water
                                                                                                         moved to B




                                                                                   I        uB
                                                                                   i
                                                                                   I
                                                         Flow                                    zB
                                                                                   I
                                                                                   I
                          I
                          ,                      /        Datum                    I

                           I

                          A                                                        B


Figure 10.1 Variation in energy as unit mass of water moves from position A to B.


dynamics, is a particular case of this general energy equation, in which there is no energy
loss between points 1 and 2.
   Bernoulli's equation is:
          u2
               + h + z - constant
          2g

The limitations of Bernoulli's equation must be carefully noted. It applies only to steady
flow within a streamline and to flow where no energy is lost through turbulence. In
practice this means that it can only be applied as an approximation over short distances; in
all civil engineering applications, there is a loss of energy as flow moves from point A to
point B. The problem faced is how much energy is lost and how accurately can it be
calculated.


10.2 Boundary layers
The concept of streamlines is most relevant to the idealised condition of flow moving
uniformly in a large body of water. Away from the influence of any solid boundary, a
particle of water will follow its streamline. This condition is known as potential flow.
However, when a boundary is introduced into the flow the situation is different. The water
                                                                 10.2 Boundary layers    465


in immediate contact with the solid surface must be stationary. Moving away from the
surface the velocity increases until at some distance from the surface it is essentially back
to its undisturbed value. Thus there is a region adjacent to the surface in which there is a
velocity gradient, with adjacent streamlines.at different velocities. This region is known as
the boundary layer. The thickness of the boundary layer depends on a number of factors
but the boundary layer can be envisaged as growing from the point of contact of the flow
with the solid boundary. In a conduit of finite size the boundary layer will increase in the
direction of flow until it fills the full depth of flow in an open channel or the full cross-
section of a pipe.
   The velocity profile within a boundary layer is primarily a function of the size of the
conduit, the velocity of flow and the density and viscosity of the fluid. These parameters
are combined in a single dimensionless grouping known as the Reynold's number Re
where:
               VD
        Re =
                11

 V being the average velocity of flow, D some representative dimension of the flow (for
example, the depth of flow in an open channel or the diameter of a pipe) and u is the
kinematic viscosity of the fluid, defined as #/p where # is the viscosity and p the density.
   At low Reynold's numbers the flow is described as laminar. In laminar flow viscosity is
dominant and the momentum and inertia of the flow have little effect. The boundary layer
is small and the velocity gradient within it may be high. A good example is treacle flowing
over an object. Laminar flow occurs rarely in water supply systems. To put this in
perspective, laminar flow occurs when the Reynold's number is below about 2000. Since
the value of the kinematic viscosity of water is about 1.1 x 10-6 m2/s at 15~ this requires
that V x D be less than about 0.002 m. Thus, for example, it would apply to a case where
the flow velocity was less than 0.02 m/s in a pipe of 100 mm diameter.
   As the Reynold's number increases so turbulence becomes increasingly important.
When the Reynold's number increases above about 2000 there is a sudden transition in the
flow as turbulence begins to affect the motion, and laminar conditions no longer apply.
Resistance to motion then increases markedly. Viscosity still remains a major influence at
Reynold's numbers beyond this transition and the flow is described as 'smooth turbulent'.
As the Reynold's number increases further so the effect of viscosity gradually reduces and
the influence of turbulence increases. At a higher Reynold's number, depending on the
roughness of the boundary, the effect of viscosity becomes negligible and the flow is said to
be 'rough turbulent'. The region between smooth and rough turbulent flow is described as
the 'intermediate zone' where both viscosity and turbulence have an influence.
   This relationship between resistance to flow and Reynold's number is best illustrated by
the diagram developed by Moody, 1 which is shown in Fig. 10.2 for pipe flow. The flow
resistance is characterised by the friction factor, f, which will be explained later. In the
laminar flow region, f is a function solely of the Reynold's number but above the
transition region, f i s a function of both Reynold's number and the roughness of the pipe
surface, which is expressed in terms of the relative roughness, ks~d, where ks is a linear
measurement of the surface roughness and d the pipe diameter.
   Turbulence is generated by water moving at a different velocity from that in a streamline
adjacent to it. This generates a shear force between the streamlines tending to retard the
faster flow and speed up the slower flow. Thus, in a boundary layer, the faster flow is
dragged down towards the boundary and the slower flow pulled away from the boundary,
466      Hydraulics

                                    Values of Vd for water at 15~ (m2/s)
                                 0.01                0.1                                                10
        0.08                                                                                             I
        0.07]--                         \                                                                       0.05
                                            \
        0.06         Laminar                    \
                     /       ~                      x
        0.05
                                 ~ \ ,
                                                        x                                                       0.02

        0.04
"0                                                          \                                                   0.01
                                                                \

 II     0.03                                                                                                    0.005 ~ ~,
                                                                    \
 0                                                                      \                                                    ~ w
                                                                            \                                   0.002        >e
 r                                                                              \                                        .   u




._o     0.02 -
                                                                                    \                           0.001    m
                                                                                                                         n-"
,0
 Li                                                                                         \
I.i.
                                                                                                \               0.0005
                                                                                                    \
       0.015    -
                                                                                                        -   -   0.0002
                                                                                                        ~- 0.OOOl
                                                                                                            0.00005
                                                             I                          I                 I
                                                                                                        - - -


        0.01                       I
               103                104                       10 5                    106                     107
                                            Reynolds number, Re = Vd/v


Figure 10.2 Moody diagram illustrating the variation of hydraulic resistance with Reynold's
number (i is the gradient of the energy line, the 'hydraulic gradient').


creating a lateral velocity component and the formation of turbulent eddies. There is a
transfer of momentum across the streamlines and the velocity profile is no longer linear
but approximately logarithmic with zero value at the boundary, as noted above.


1.0,3          Pipe flow
The engineer is concerned with two types of flow - open-surface channel flow and closed
conduit flow. In the former the depth of flow can vary. In the latter the area of flow is
fixed and for a known flow in a given size of conduit the velocity can be calculated
directly. Pipe flow will be considered first as it is more straightforward. "
   At the entry of water into a pipe from a large tank or reservoir, the flow, as it accelerates
into the inlet, approximates to the idealised condition of potential flow. However a
boundary layer is generated from the lip of the inlet and, within a relatively short distance
downstream of the entry, this has expanded to fill the whole pipe. At Reynold's numbers
just above the laminar transition the velocity profile will be logarithmic from the boundary
wall to the centreline of the pipe. At higher Reynold's numbers the turbulence is such that
momentum is transferred across the streamlines. Across much of the section the time-
averaged velocity will be constant but there will be steep velocity gradients near the pipe
wall.
   Figure 10.3(a) illustrates the velocity profile across a pipe operating in the smooth
turbulent zone. At the centre of the pipe the velocity is greatest and is about 1.2 times the
                                                                               10.3 Pipe flow   467


//////Jl///////////                   //t////////                // /////////////
             I 1 - ~ ~ - "~_      [~/'i (~/Reverse flow



                                                               ///        ////////////
       (a) Flow in smooth-                (b) Flow past                   (c) Flow in rough-
           turbulent zone                     an obstacle                     turbulent zone

Figure 10.3 Velocityprofiles in a pipe flowing full.


average value, although the ratio of the maximum speed of the flow to the average varies
as a function of the Reynold's number and the roughness of the walls. Of course, it may
vary very greatly if an obstacle in the pipe affects the flow as illustrated in Fig. 10.3(b).
Figure 10.3(c) shows the velocity profile across a pipe operating in the rough-turbulent
zone, with a much more uniform velocity across much of the cross-section, but with steep
velocity gradients close to the walls.
   The average velocity in a pipe is simply the rate of discharge divided by the cross-
sectional area of the pipe, i.e. Q/a, where Q is the discharge and a is the cross-sectional
area. This average velocity is denoted as V to distinguish it from the velocities in individual
streamlines, Ul, u2, u3, etc. The energy equation applies to any streamline flow but to apply
the same equation to the whole flow within a pipe the energy equations for the separate
streamlines must be summed. Thus the total kinetic energy of the flow is:
         Z(u21/2g + u2/2g + u23/2g + ... + u2/2g)
However this sum does not equal V2/2g. The ratio of (p~u2/2g)/(V2/2g) is therefore given
the symbol of a and the total kinetic energy of the flow is c~V2/2g. In a similar fashion the
summation of the pressure energies is tiP, where P is the average pressure across the cross-
section of the pipe. As it is a linear function, the average potential energy in a circular pipe
is given by the level of the centre of the pipe, provided the pipe is flowing full. Thus for the
whole pipe flow the energy equation is correctly:
         H - o~V 2/2g + flh + z                                      ..




where V and P are the average velocities and pressures across the section, respectively, and
Z is the level of the centre of the pipe above some datUm. In practice, the values of e~ and/3
are close to unity and in most practical applications the errors involved in ignoring the
difference are so small as to be insignificant. Hence this assumption permits the flow at
any section of a pipeline to be related to that at any other point of the same line.

Units used
As indicated in Section 10.1, for water supply systems the common practice is to express
the terms in the energy equation in 'head of water'. In metric units this is normally
expressed in metres. This is convenient as levels are expressed in the same form. Thus, for
example, the difference in level between two reservoirs connected by a pipeline can be
considered as a direct measure of the available potential energy between the two locations.
In metric units, if the energy, H is expressed in 'metres head of water' then z must also be
468    Hydraulics

expressed in metres and the kinetic energy in the same units. This requires that the velocity
is in m/s and the gravitational acceleration, g, is 9.81 m/s 2.


10.4     Headlosses in pipes (1)- the Colebrook-White formula
The energy equation for the total flow in a pipe can now be expressed as:

         V~/2g + hi + Zl - V~/2g + h2 -3r-22 -+- HL                                       (10.4)
where HL is the energy loss in the pipeline between the two sections 1 and 2. Knowing the
total energy level at location 1 (for example, the level of a reservoir) the energy level at any
other point can be calculated if the energy loss HL can be estimated.
   The energy lost through turbulence is caused by two mechanisms - (i) the drag of the
pipe walls on the flow, and (ii) turbulence generated whenever there is a change to the
direction or area of the flow. A flowing fluid has momentum and does not want to change
direction. Thus any change to the angle of the boundary walls, particularly if the boundary
turns away from the direction of flow, may lead to the flow 'breaking away' from the
surface leaving an area of turbulence, the 'wake'. The more abrupt the boundary change
the greater is the potential for energy loss. The former mechanism for energy loss is known
as the hydraulic resistance or 'friction' loss; the latter is the 'form' loss due to the geometry
of the change of cross-section or obstruction in the flow. The friction losses are continuous
over the length of a pipeline; the form losses are localised in the immediate vicinity of the
element causing the energy loss and are also referred to as 'local losses'.
   The loss of energy due to the hydraulic resistance of a pipe is a function of the velocity
of the flow, V, the internal diameter of the pipe, d, the length of the pipe, L, the roughness
of the surface of the pipe and the characteristics of the flowing fluid, expressed in terms of
the kinematic viscosity, u.

Darcy-Weisbach formula
A dimensionally correct formula for the head loss is the Darcy-Weisbach equation which
gives the head loss in a length of pipe as:
         HL = fLV2/2gd                                                                    (10.5)
where f is a non-dimensional coefficient, known as the friction factor, which includes the
effects of pipe wall roughness and the fluid viscosity. (Note that the friction factor f is also
commonly designated by A.) Unfortunatelyfis not constant but varies with the size of pipe
and the degree of turbulence of the flow.

Colebrook-White formula
Colebrook and White showed that f in the Darcy-Wiesbach formula is a function of the
relative roughness of the pipe surface, the viscosity of the flow, and the Reynold's number,
Re. From a combination of theoretical analysis and empirical data they showed that
          v/(1/f) = -21oglo{ks/3.Vld + 2.51/Ref ~ }
which can also be written as:

          v/(1/f ) = -21oglo{ks/3.71d + 2.51u/d(Zgdi) ~ }
                         10.4 Headlosses in pipes (1) - the Co&brook-White formula        469


where i is the hydraulic gradient, H/L; ks is the roughness of the internal surface of the
pipe; u is the kinematic viscosity of the water.
   This variation of f with Reynold's number and relative roughness was plotted by
Moody and forms the basis of the diagram illustrated in Fig. 10.2.
   The Colebrook-White equation is a formulation of the Darcy-Weisbach equation and
is usually written as:

         V - -2(2gdi)~                     + 2.51u/d(2gdi) ~ }                         (10.6)

 This equation can be solved directly only for V (and hence Q), knowing d and i. More
commonly it is required to find i, knowing Q and d. The equation is then not explicit but
must be solved via an iterative technique of successive approximations. Whilst this used to
be a major objection to its widespread use, now with programmable calculators and PC-
based spreadsheets, it is no longer a significant drawback. The Colebrook-White
equation, or one of the approximations given below allowing a direct solution, is now
widely used and is recommended as the formula that should be used to estimate pipeline
head losses. One of the advantages of this equation over the empirical formulae discussed
below is that the roughness coefficient, k~ is a function only of the surface roughness of the
pipe and does not change with the size of the pipe or velocity of the flow. The factor ks is
sometimes referred to as the equivalent sand roughness because the original experiments
carried out by Nikuradse (the data from which Colebrook and White used in the
development of their formula) utilised sand grains stuck to the inside of the pipes. The
value of k~ is meant to represent the equivalent diameter of the sand particles giving that
degree of roughness. Although this is only a notional concept, it does provide a physical
meaning to the roughness measurement which does not apply to the coefficients in any of
the empirical formulae given in Section 10.5 below.
  A second advantage of the Colebrook-White formula is that it applies over the full
range of turbulent flow from the smooth turbulent condition at Reynold's numbers as low
as 3 x 103 to the rough turbulent flow condition at Reynold's numbers in excess of 1 x
107. The first term in the logarithmic function, ks/3.71d, represents the effect of the pipe
roughness and dominates at high Reynold's numbers, whilst the second term includes the
dynamic viscosity and dominates at low Reynold's numbers.
  There are approximations to the Colebrook-White formula that allow direct calculation
of d or i knowing the flow, Q, and the other of the two parameters. These provide an
accuracy within 0.5% - well within the accuracy with which the roughness is known. Two
such equations which can be recommended are those of Barr, to solve for i, and Pham, to
solve for D. Thus the three explicit equations can be written in the following similar
format.
  The Colebrook-White equation, to solve for Q:

            V        0.9003Q              { ks        2.51u }
        v/(2gdi-------
                   ~ = d2v/(gdi ) - -21og10 3.71d + dv/(2gdi )                         (10.7)

The Barr approximation, to solve for i:

         0.9003Q
                    = - 1.91og10{ (ks/3.71 d)1.053 + (4.932ud/Q) ~   }                 (10.8)
        d2v/(gdi)
470   Hydraulics

The Pham approximation, to solve for d:

         0.9003Q
                     =-1.8841oglo{O.365(g.i)~         ~ + 3.55u/Q~176                  (10.9)
        d2 v/(gdi)
   Units must be consistent, e.g. d (m); Q (m3/s); g (9.81 m/s 2) and ks must be in m
(although quoted below in mm). The kinematic viscosity, u, of clean water is 1.310 x 10 -6
at 10~ and 1.011 x 10 -6 at 20~
   For water mains there is considerable guidance available on the choice of ks values to
adopt for design. 2 Typical values for new clean pipes are as follows:

                                                                For new pipes
               Steel or ductile iron pipes:
                 with spun bitumen or enamel finish             0.025-0.05 mm
                 with cement mortar lining                      0.03-0.1 mm
               Concrete pipes                                   0.03-0.3 mm
               Plastic pipes                                    0.003-0.06 mm

For design purposes to allow for deterioration of interior condition the following values
are indicative of what might be used:

                                                                   For design
               Raw water mains                                     1.5-3 mm
               Treated water trunk mains                           0.3-1.0 mm
               Distribution systems                                0.5-1.5 mm

For service pipes typical values of ks are

                                                               For new pipes
               Galvanised steel                                0.06-0.3 mm
               Copper                                          0.002-0.005 mm
               MDPE                                            0.003-0.006 mm
               uPVC                                            0.003-0.06 mm

   However (i) ks values below 0.01 mm show no significant change in V or i from that at
0.01 mm; (ii) loss at joints, elbows, tees, etc. on the line to the consumer's tap may add 50-
70% to pipe losses (see Table 15.5, Chapter 15); and (iii) it is not possible to quote ks
values for old service pipes due to the wide range of interior conditions that can apply.
   In raw water mains there may be a tendency for organic slimes to develop on the walls.
This slime tends to be ripped off as the velocity increases and there is evidence that the
roughness reduces at higher flows. The designer of a new pipeline must make a judgement
as to whether this effect can allow a reduction in the design head losses. It may also be
necessary in a raw water pipeline to allow for some increase in roughness due to presence
of sediment in the invert and possibly fresh water organic growth such as mussels. The
latter may greatly increase the roughness. Also if the water quality is such that
tuberculation is likely over the life of the pipeline, then much higher values may be
appropriate.
                                      10.5 Headlosses in pipes (2) - empirical formulae   471


   The development of computer programs for the analysis of water distribution system
flows allows a much more detailed approach. Such programs allow calibration of network
models by the adjustment of roughnesses in each pipe. Once a model using the Colebrook-
White formula is calibrated then the prediction of the system's performance under other
flow regimes or the design of improvements can be undertaken with some confidence,
without the need for adjustment of the roughness values. However it is important to
remember that measurements are rarely more accurate than + 5% in practice, with errors
often greater. Some network programs still cater for the use of the Hazen-Williams
equation, which is discussed further below. Given the uncertainties involved in network
modelling this does not necessarily lead to greater inaccuracies but it does mean that a
model calibrated for one set of flow conditions must be used with greater caution for other
flow conditions.


10.5    Headlosses in pipes (2)- empirical formulae
There are several other formulae for the calculation of headloss in pipes which have been
and are still used by water supply engineers. They have to be used with caution as each
applies over a limited range of Reynold's numbers and in different areas of the Moody
diagram (Fig. 10.2). Thus, for example, the Blasius formula applies at low Reynold's
numbers in the smooth-turbulent zone, where viscosity dominates, the Hazen-Williams
formula applies in the intermediate zone and Manning's formula applies in the rough-
turbulent zone where the pipe roughness dominates. The Blasius equation has relatively
limited applicability in the civil engineering context but the latter two are discussed in
more detail below.
   The Hazen-Williams formula has been used for many years in water supply. It is well
documented and, until the advent of programmable calculators and computers, was
considerably easier to use than the Colebrook-White equation. The equation can be
expressed in metric units as
                6.78L
        H (m) - )-i:l--~ (V/C) 1.85                                                  (lO.lOa)

or

         V (m/s)   =   0.355C.d~      TM                                             (10.10b)
where C is a coefficient and i (= H/L), d, V, H and L are as defined earlier.
   It will be noticed that the coefficient, C, is not dimensionless. It has units and is
therefore a function of the other parameters. As noted above, the Hazen-Williams
equation is most accurate for typical pipe sizes and velocities found in water supply
practice. The flow in a pipe of 0.6 m diameter with a velocity of 1.0 m/s has a Reynold's
number of about 5  105. This is in the intermediate zone in the Moody diagram and the
Hazen-Williams formula can be applied with reasonable accuracy provided that velocity
and pipe size do not vary greatly from these values. The formula becomes increasingly
inaccurate as the Reynold's number varies further away from this mean value. Thus
different values of C apply for different pipe sizes and even for the same pipe at different
flows.
   The value of C can, of course, be adjusted to provide a more accurate answer if the
parameters do vary significantly. Figure 10.4 shows how the coefficient varies with pipe
diameter for a range of pipe roughnesses, and indicates the approximate adjustment
472      Hydraulics

         150 -
                                 Nevl UPC                   New spun bitumen lined
                                                                                        ks= 0.05 mm

                                                                                        Suggested design value for
         140 -      J                                                                   spun bitumen lined pipes
                                                        I
                                                        !
                                                        !                               ks= 0.25 mm

   -5    130   -




   ffl
   E
                    f                                                                   ks= 0.50 mm

                                                                                        Suggested design value
   ._m 120 -
                                      !
                                      | . . . . . . .
                                                                                        for ductile iron pipes
                                            ^o                           c~176176
                                                                                        ks= 1.0mm
   N
                                                                                        ks = 1.5 mm
   -r 110 -
   e-
                                                                                        ks= 2.0 mm


   o     100 -                                                                          ks= 3.0 mm


                                                                                        ks= 5.0 mm
          90-

                    /      j                                      tve,oc,,yo!,om,sI
          80           I If I                    ,       I                Ii          I
                   100 200 300                          600              900         1200
                                   Diameter of pipe (mm)

               Notes
               (1) For 0.5 m/s add 5 to C value
                   For 2.0 m/s deduct 5 from C value shown above
               (2) For concrete lined pipes the following are Scobey classes
                   Class 4 (K = 0.25 mm): first class finish
                         3 (K = 0.50 mm): good finish, all joints filled
                         2 (K = 1.25 mm): imperfect finish
                         1 (K = 5.0 mm): old concrete pipes
               (3) For tuberculated cast iron pipes carrying raw water ks may be 10--.- 30 mm and
                   Mannings formula should be used in preference to Hazen-Williams

Figure 10.4 C values in the Hazen-Williams formula as a function of pipe size and pipe roughness
for a velocity of 1.0 m/s.




needed for velocities varying from 1.0 m/s. The Hazen-Williams flow diagram in Fig. 10.5
is useful in giving an approximation of the size of pipe required for a given flow, etc. for
subsequent checking by the Colebrook-White formula.
   Manning's equation is appropriate for use when the flow is in the fully-turbulent range,
either at high Reynold's numbers or when the conduit is particularly rough. It is widely
used in open channel flow, for which there are extensive data, and will be referred to again
in that context. It is not generally recommended for pipeline systems, except possibly in
large, rough conduits such as unlined tunnels. Manning's equation, in metric units, is
                 .ooI
                                                                            10.5 Headlosses in pipes (2)                                                          -       empirical formulae 473

                 450                                                                                                                                                                     100.0
                                                    I     I I ! l llJ/k                   Yk i               I J/lkllll                  IL/                 I/1          l/rll~9o.o
                 35O                                                                                                    Fiow in pipes . . . .  t-~                                       8o.o
                 3O0                                ~@"'                                                                Hazen-Williams formula ~                                         70.0
                 250
                                                                                      ',Y!',.!                    !~"                /            I/"                 ~'~ ~ r            ~~176
                 2O0                                YI,., I J~'lll                ~                  I \,I.4"I..KI,D/..'F./l                                              L~ 1 I-~~176
                 150                                ~,2I'IlxLU ~ k ~ . - (                                                                                   ,4"11b~='~176
                                                                                                                                                                      o

                 1O0
                                                          '~! 11~                                                                                                                 .      .o

                  8 0            ~                                      Ilia c /"          l/'~i        /f        ! I,,"I!11 / \                  I        .,4"       I I L~          IL2o.o
                                                                        ~;i/             11" Y I J / l - \ l l l J i                      ', 1 /                      1 i,"lll.i'l
                                                                                                                                                             ..
                  80
                                                                        ]ZX/               1 / 1 \ . 1 / I IXidtl"i                         $.@                       J,"l l~d'll
                  70
                  60                                                                                                        '
                  50                                                                                                            .,.-', I~~;                       .,1"1 ~1
                  45                                                                                                            ,~       \ ,,,q       ",     1/       I   lJ r   1 I L 1o.o
                  40                                                                                           Jl    ~gl                                              I / f 1 11XI-9.o
                  35                                                                            "I I ~O_'tkNk~" Y . \ I / I                                               1 M"111-8.o
                                                                                                  1 Z,k~Tq~./I        )f                                              1.1/[ 11 IJ-,o             -~
                                                                                                ..Y',k't.\~,111.,.~
                  3O
           >,,                                                                                                                               .2" l'v~! I J,~l-~.o                                -o
                                                                                                i~',,
                                                                                                    IXI'~ ,,Y I/'r' 1~1111-, ~o ~,.
                  25
          "0


                                                                                                J,-~l.kl"k4'f"21" b~,l lb .o .o
           ~-     20
           IX
           u~     15                                                                                                                                                                             O
          ._
                                                                                                                                                                                         2.5     a)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 e-
          I~      lO
          |        9                                                                                                                                                                     2.o     .o
          E        8                                                                                ~'x/~]'iv'f I ll,],r",                        i.,Xl               I I 1:,4"I I               "~-E
                                                                                                                    12Pll \ 14"\I                                     l J/r~l,
          .,,      6                                                                                    "1        b'PIIll            2"1                    '~ / 1 1 1 t               r '~      ""
                                                                                                        '[' "I'd IILI/\,                          ! ..~', 1 I1 If,1                              "
            I
                   5
                                                                                                        q-        I t, b4"II                \!/              1\1          1 Illi-~.o             :~
           o
          11
                                                                                                ~"              "                     /Xl                    l $, l.l'q                  0.8
                   3                                                                                          "III'tlV                            k          l l~d'll                    o.,     o
                                                                                                        "         il~                                 \                   , 11 ll-o,             z

                                                                                                        ~ I IIIl'v/l t\l I 1\1 ll-[]
                                                                                                                                                  117 7o:.,
                 1.5



                 1.0

                                                                                                            4"YI   IIII x,IX .,2iI I i l ' xil liiik    ~176
                 0.9 I
                 0.8;
                 o.71
                                                                                                            'J I I I111                          l l l -~




                                                                                                                                              ,!,!
                 0.6

                 0.5

                 0.4!
                       i
                                                                                                        --R--1~4@.,~,~                                                I I I I lll:g:'o~
                                                                                                                                                                                      .~- 0.o7

                                                                                                                                     C~1I k11111 -~1760
                   0.1                 0.2         0.3 0.4 0.5            ,.o              ,,                ,,             ,o \,o ~o,o,o      ;oo~176
                                                                                ,'o             ~        ~ , ~                ,~, 2'0 3'o:o;o' ,~,
                            I
                           0.1               012        0!3 0!4 015
                                01.1           0'2        01.3 0!4 05             ,'.o              ~        ; ; ~                    ,'o                  2'0 ;o ;o\~o ;o
                                                                                                                                                                                 C = 120
                                         Friction loss in m per lO00m (for C values 100, 110 and 120)


Figure 10.5 Hazen-Williams flow diagram.

normally written in the form:

                 R2/3.il/2
         V= ~                                                                                                                                                                                           (10.11)
                           n

where R is the hydraulic mean depth (also known as the 'hydraulic r a d i u s ' ) - the area of
flow divided by the wetted perimeter, i is the hydraulic gradient ( - H/L), and n is a
roughness coefficient known as the Manning coefficient. For a circular pipe,
474    Hydraulics


R = 7rdZ/47rd = d/4, so for a pipe the equation can be written
                     0.397d2/3.il/2
         V (m/s) =                                                                         (10.12)
                            n

Again, it should be noted that n has dimensions and is a function of the size of the conduit.
However it is relatively insensitive to the diameter of a pipe and for many calculations can
be assumed to be constant. Appropriate values for n are given in Table 10.2 in Section
10.11.
  While both Hazen-Williams equation and Manning's equation have been used in the
past for pipe flow and, in the case of the former equation, quite widely used, the simplicity
of their formulations is no longer a significant advantage over the Colebrook-White
equation, which is applicable over the full range of conditions likely to be found in water
supply. The use of the Colebrook-White equation, or the direct solution approximations
of it, is therefore strongly recommended for all pipeline calculations.


10.6     Local head losses at fittings
As discussed earlier, headlosses occur at every location where there is a geometric change
to the conduit, such as at a bend in the pipeline, a change of section, an obstruction to flow
such as a valve, or simply the entry to a pipe or exit from a pipe into a tank. In such cases
the headloss is usually expressed as a proportion of the velocity head, or kinetic energy, of
the flow, i.e. A H (or IlL) = KV2/2g, where K is a coefficient depending primarily on the
type of fitting or fixture in the pipeline. V is normally taken as the velocity in the upstream
pipeline: not, in the case of valves or other obstructions, the velocity through the opening
in the fitting itself.
   Values of K are almost entirely empirical but there have been extensive experimental
measurements on standard fittings on which estimates can be based. Table 10.1 gives
values of the headloss coefficients for some standard fittings and suggested values for
design. Some standard data is available for valves but in most cases it will be prudent to
obtain values from manufacturers. The suggested design values in Table 10.1 are generally
conservative, and it is prudent to use them when estimating losses in short conduits
containing several fittings or changes of direction, etc. in close proximity. Short conduits
conveying water from one tank to another often occur in water treatment works, and it is
important not to under-estimate losses when designing weir and overflow levels.* Also
allowance for imperfection in lining up fittings and for increase of roughness with age may
need to be allowed for. If accurate analysis is being carried out on an existing installation
then reference to more accurate data may be required 3 and it should be noted that the
losses at some fittings, particularly bends, are a function of the pipeline roughness as well
as the geometric shape. For complicated arrangements a hydraulic model may be
advisable.


10.7      Open channel flow
The flow in an open channel follows the same principles that have been developed for pipe
flow. Thus the energy equation, eqn (10.2), is still valid and energy is lost in the same way

For some calculations such as surge and transient flow analyses and assessing the range of duties on
a pump, it may be necessary to take minimum losses possible.
                                                                        10.7 Open channel f l o w    475


Table 10.1    Loss coefficients through pipeline fittings

                                                   k value in k V2/2g
                                                   Laboratory test values       Suggested field value (a)
Entrances: V = velocity through pipe or gate
Standard bellmouth pipe                            0.05                         0.10
Pipe flush with entrance                           0.50                         1.00
Pipe protruding                                    0.80                         1.50
Sluice-gated or square entrance                                                 1.50
B e n d s - 90 ~ (45 ~ half values given)
Medium radius (R/D = 2 or 3)                       0.40                        0.50
Medium radius- mitred                              0.50                        0.80
Elbow or sharp angled                              1.25                         1.50
T e e s - 90~ Assumes equal diameters
In-line flow                                       0.35                        0.40
Branch to line, or reverse                         1.20                         1.50
Exits
Sudden enlargement: ratio 1:2                      0.60                         1.00
Gradual (well tapered)exit                         0.20                        0.50
Sudden contractions: Loss on contraction
and subsequent expansion; V = velocity
through contraction
Contraction area ratio:
1:2                                                1.00                         1.50
2:3                                                0.65                         1.00
3:4                                                0.40                         1.00
Expansion only                                                                  1.00
Gate valve fully open                              0.12                         0.25
Butterfly valve fully open                         0.25                         0.5

(a)The k values in the second column are recommended for assessing loss through short conduits
containing several fittings, bends, etc. in close proximity.



through the resistance of the channel surfaces and locally where the geometry of the
channel changes. However, in open channel flow there is the added complication that the
depth and hence area of flow can change. Whereas in a given pipe the area of flow is fixed
and hence the velocity is a function only of the flow, in a channel of known dimensions,
the velocity is not only a function of the flow but also of the channel depth and width.
   Returning to the energy equation (10.2) in Section 10.1

         H-     --~g + h + z

the pressure head, h, is now the depth of water, y; and z is the level of the channel invert
above some datum. For a case where the energy is constant any increase in velocity, and
476   Hydraulics

hence the kinetic energy must be accompanied by a fall in the potential energy and hence a
drop in water surface. Similarly a retardation of the flow and reduction of the kinetic
energy must be accompanied by a corresponding rise in the water surface if there is no
energy loss. In practice, whilst there may be very little energy loss in a case where the
velocity is increased and potential energy is converted to kinetic energy, it is always the
case that there is some loss of energy in the reverse process. The latter process, known as
recovery of head, is never 100% efficient.
  The specific energy head, Hs, is defined as the energy head above the channel invert and
eqn (10.2) can be written as

               - g+y
                  v2



where y is the depth of flow.
  Since V = Q/A where Q is the flow and A the area of the flow,
                    Q2
           Hs = (AZ2g------~+ y                                                      (10.13)

Since A is a function of the depth y; eqn (10.13) relates the specific energy of flow H~ to a
cubic function of y. This is made clearer if a rectangular channel is considered, for which
A = y.b where b is the width of the channel. Substituting for A gives:
                    02
           Hs = ~ + y                                                                 (10.14)
                yZb22g
Substituting q for Q/b, where q is known as the unit discharge, i.e. the flow per unit width
in a rectangular channel, gives
                   q2
           Hs - y-~2g + Y                                                             (10.15)

For any value of H~ (above a certain minimum value to which reference is made later) there
are two possible depths y which satisfy eqn (10.15) for the same flow q, i.e. H~ can be made




       I                           TEL                        I                        TEL

                                                        "~-       ~   ......   l/

                                                                               2g




  /////////                                           //////////////~///////

(a)                                                   (b)
Figure 10.6 Examples of alternative flow depth.
                                                                  10.8 Critical depth of flow 477

up of two different proportions of the velocity energy and the depth energy. There are a
number of common examples which demonstrate this, two of which are shown in Fig. 10.6.
   The first is the flow over a dam spillway or weir. Upstream the flow is deep and the
velocity very low. Downstream the same flow has a much higher velocity and the depth is
much reduced. The second case illustrates the flow under a freely-discharging sluice gate.
Again the upstream flow is deep and slow; the downstream flow is shallow and fast. In
both cases it is assumed that there is negligible energy loss across the structure. For
reasons which will become clearer below, the slow deep flow is known as sub-critical flow,
whilst the fast shallow flow is known as super-critical flow.
   Equation (10.15) can be plotted for y as a function of the specific energy head, Hs, with
a constant unit discharge, as illustrated in Fig. 10.7. This shows how the equation provides
two answers for a particular value of the specific energy. It also shows that there is a
minimum value of the specific energy at which there is only a single value of depth which
solves the equation; this is known as the critical depth. The critical depth is an important
concept in open-channel flow and is discussed in more detail below. It marks the boundary
between sub- and super-critical flow. If the depth is less than the critical depth then the
flow is supercritical; if the depth is greater than the critical depth the flow is sub-critical.



10.8     Critical depth of flow
The graph in Fig. 10.7 shows that, for unit discharge, the minimum energy use and critical
depth of flow occur when dH/dy equals zero. Differentiating eqn (10.15) and putting the


                                                                                    /  s




           Depth
                                                       dH            zz~~ / 7



                                                              /&

                                                     / /
                                                           Iii~Sub-critical
                                                               (deep, slow)
                                                                           flow



                                           /
                    Critical depth     /
                    Yc
                              /
                                /  /

                                                                     Supercritical flow
                                                                ~llow,         fast)
                        /                      I
                   ,/                          I

                                           Minimum                    Specific energy, H 3
                                           energy

Figure 10.7 Relationship between specific energy and depth for a given unit discharge.
478       Hydraulics

differential equal to zero for the minimum value gives
            dH       -2q 2
            dy = ~y32g
                   +l-0

i.e. y3 =     q2/g, from which the critical depth,
            Yc-      ~/(qZ/g)                                                              (10.16)
 This equation is important because it demonstrates that the critical depth is a function
only of the discharge per unit width. Furthermore, substituting y c 3 for q2/g in eqn (10.15),
and simplifying, the following simple relationship between critical depth and the minimum
specific energy is obtained.

            ns(min)-- 1.5yc = 1.5(q2/g) 1/3                                                (10.17)

Thus the minimum energy is also a function of the unit discharge alone. Hence, given the
unit discharge, the critical depth and minimum energy head at any location can be
calculated.
  Consider the case of flow in a rectangular channel with unit discharge, q, and assume
the flow is sub-critical. As shown in Fig. 10.8, the specific energy level (the energy head
above the invert) is denoted by the chain dotted line and comprises the depth plus the
kinetic energy of the velocity. If part of the bed is raised, as indicated in the diagram, then
the specific energy reduces. The energy level cannot increase so the depth must decrease
and the velocity must therefore increase. The velocity head therefore increases and there
must be a drop in water level over the raised section of the bed. If the bed is raised further,
then eventually the specific energy will reach the minimum value and the depth of flow
over the raised section will drop to the critical depth. Any further raising of the bed will
reduce the energy below the required minimum value for that unit flow, and the only
possible result is a reduction in flow over the raised sill. If the flow is to be maintained then
there must be a rise in upstream water level to provide more energy to enable that flow to
pass over the sill.


                                                  H




            t
                                                   9    .                .2g_         ..




                                                                    'i
   ....         2g


                                                       1 L --                   TM"
                             Y2




      7/J//////~/////~/////
      (a) Low sill
                                                   //       ////

                                                   (b) High sill
                                                                                   C
                                                                                ////////
                                                                                           9.



Figure 10.8 Flow over a raised sill: (a) low sill, (b) high sill.
                                                                 10.8 Critical depth of flow 479

   Critical depth of flow thus occurs when there is free discharge over a weir or gate. The
flow utilises minimum energy to pass the maximum discharge possible for the available
energy head. The expressions free discharge, or modular discharge, are used to denote that
the downstream conditions do not affect the flow. Clearly, if there were some control
downstream, such as a gate, which was progressively closed then eventually the
downstream level would back up to the extent that the free discharge over the weir
would be drowned out. Critical depth would not occur and the upstream water level would
rise accordingly.
   Critical depth conditions can also occur because of an increase in the unit discharge. If
instead of raising the bed, the sides of the channel are brought in, squeezing the flow, the
specific energy remains constant but the discharge per unit width must increase. Again,
this can continue until the unit discharge reaches the value defined in eqn (10.15). If the
channel is narrowed beyond this point then the specific energy must increase and the
upstream water level must rise to provide this additional head. This effect is utilised in
measurement flumes, which are discussed in Section 10.15. The entrance to a steep culvert
is another example where critical depth may occur because the flow is squeezed through a
narrower conduit. There are many instances where the flow passes through critical depth
due to both a narrowing of the channel and the raising of the bed. The spillway of a dam is
one such example. Another is illustrated in Fig. 10.9 which illustrates the flow from a
reservoir into a channel. The channel is narrower than the reservoir and clearly the bed is
raised, so critical depth would be expected at the channel entrance, provided the channel is
steep and that the downstream water level is not sufficient to drown out the entrance to the
channel. The water surface would also be seen to drop as the flow accelerates into the
channel.
   The proviso above that the water level downstream of the entrance must not be so high
as to drown out the entrance is important. This depends on the slope of the downstream
channel. If the slope on the channel is too flat to maintain the flow, the water level will rise
and the entrance becomes drowned out with sub-critical flow throughout. At one
particular slope the depth will remain at critical depth and the control at the entrance will
remain. At steeper slopes than this critical slope the flow will accelerate away from the inlet
with super-critical flow conditions.
   The occurrence of critical depth in a system is described as a hydraulic control. As noted
above it provides a location where the rat&g curve, i.e. the relationship between depth (or


                        Critical depth of flow
                            2
                         d=.gH



                                                                                                2.




Figure 10.9 Critical depth of flow at a channel entrance with the condition that the slope is greater
than the critical slope.
480    Hydraulics


level) and flow, is fixed and a function only of the local geometry. If such locations can be
identified in a system they form a starting point for assessing water levels throughout the
system.


10.9     Weirs, flumes and gates
The above discussion considered the case of flow passing from sub-critical to super-critical
through the critical, minimum energy condition. This can be achieved smoothly and
without energy loss over a weir, or through a flume or gate. In each of these cases the flow
is accelerating and this tends to dampen down turbulence. The reverse, passing from
super-critical flow to sub-critical flow, involves the deceleration of the flow. The flow is
less stable in such conditions and it is almost impossible to achieve the transition smoothly
without energy loss. Generally, a region of high turbulence, known as a hydraulic jump will
form. This is discussed further in Section 10.12.
   Before dealing with the subject of energy losses in open channel flow, it is useful to
consider further the hydraulics of weirs and gates which are widely used in water supply
systems.

Weirs
Returning to eqn (10.17), it can be re-arranged in the form ( 2 / 3 H s ) 3 = q2/g
  Hence
         flow per unit width q = 2/3x/(2g/3)H 15                                          (10.18)
and, for a rectangular channel of width, b
         Q = 2/3x/(2g/3)bH 15                                                             (10.19)
This is now in the form of a weir equation, which can be generalised as
         Q = CabH 15                                                                      (10.20)

where Ca is a discharge coefficient.
   In eqn (10.19) the discharge coefficient 2/3x/'(2g/3) equals 1.705 in metric units. If the
flow passes through critical depth over a weir crest then it might appear that Ca would
always take that value. However, it is important to appreciate the inherent assumptions
lying behind the theory that led to eqn (10.2) and all the subsequent equations derived
from it.
(i) There is a uniform velocity distribution across the section;
(ii) The streamlines are straight and parallel (i.e. there is no lateral pressure set up by
      curvature of the streamlines);
(iii) The vertical pressure distribution is hydrostatic (i.e. the pressure is a linear function of
      depth);
(iv) The effect of the longitudinal slope is negligible.
Provided these conditions are met, as is very nearly the case with a broad-crested weir,
such as illustrated in Fig. 10.8(b), then the discharge coefficient is indeed about 1.705.
However, many other crest profiles are used, ranging from simple plate or sharp-edged
crests, to rounded tops of walls to triangular and ogee-profile crests. They each have
advantages and disadvantages and their use depends on whether accurate flow
                                                            10.9 Weirs, flumes and gates 481

measurement is required or whether they act merely as simple overflow hydraulic controls.
Weir shapes used for flow measurement are discussed further in Section 10.14. The
discharge coefficient can vary significantly from the basic broad-crested value of 1.71 and
depends largely on the geometry of the crest, but it is also a function of the depth and
velocity of the approach flow. The subject is wide-ranging and cannot be dealt with here.
As a rule of thumb, however, the discharge coefficient is likely to be greater than 1.71 if
there is strong curvature to the flow, for example over a half-round crest or an ogee crest.
In the latter case, the profile of the crest is that of the underside of a free-falling jet of
water, so, in theory, there should be little if any pressure on the solid surface. The pressure
distribution through the depth of flow cannot, therefore, be hydrostatic and one way of
considering the problem is that the back pressure on the flow over the crest is reduced,
thus allowing an increased discharge and a corresponding increase in the discharge
coefficient. Increases in Ca of 30-40% above the broad-crested weir value are possible.
   Similarly, the discharge coefficient may be reduced if the weir crest is long, (in the
direction of flow), or very r o u g h - as might be case of flow over a grassed embankment. A
value of 1.71 is, however, a good starting point for initial design or in the absence of more
details of the weir shape.
   One final point in this general discussion of weirs needs noting; namely, that a weir only
acts as a hydraulic control if it has free or 'modular' discharge, i.e. the downstream water
level is low enough to allow the flow to pass through critical depth. If the tailwater depth is
high enough to affect the flow over the weir, then the weir is said to be drowned. This
condition is usually catered for in the weir equation by introducing a drowning factor, fa,
which is a function of the height of the tailwater level above the crest. Referring to Fig.
10.8(b) it would appear that provided the tailwater level is not more than the critical
depth, i.e. two-thirds of the upstream head above the crest, then critical depth flow will
occur. Strictly, the tailwater level has a small effect even when it is at the level of the crest,
particularly if lowered pressures can be generated below the nappe of the falling water, but
this two-thirds criterion is a useful rule of thumb. Although the crest shape does affect the
drowning factor, in many instances where a weir is not being used for measurement it is
reasonable to assume that the hydraulic control remains at the weir crest until the tailwater
level rises to a level greater than two-thirds of the upstream head above the crest.

Flumes
The foregoing comments also apply to flumes. Figure 10.16 (in Section 10.15) shows a
typical flume with a narrow throat forcing the flow through critical depth. The weir
equation can be applied to the throat and, provided the underlying assumptions as
mentioned for weirs above apply, the discharge coefficient will again be 1.705. Thus a
flume, with parallel sides and level invert to the throat, will have a discharge coefficient
close to this base value, i.e.
         Q = 1.71Cvbhl5
in metric units where Cv is the approach velocity in the channel of width b, and h is the
depth of the water in the channel. As a general guideline, a flume will also be drowned out
when the downstream water level rises to a level greater than two-thirds of the upstream
head. In practice it is often possible with a well designed exit transition from the throat to
recover some of the velocity head, and it may even be possible to design the flume such the
downstream water level can rise above this level and the overall head loss is less than HI3.
482   Hydraulics


Gates
Water control gates, as distinct from other types of gates as used in navigation locks, etc.,
may be either undershot or overshot. The latter case is akin to the flow over a weir and
only the former type is discussed here. There are many designs of gates within these broad
categories. The hydraulic principles are similar and will be illustrated in the following
discussion with reference to vertical-lift gates, also called sluice gates (and, in the UK,
penstocks), which are by far the most common in the water supply systems. This is another
case of flow passing from sub- to super-critical flow, but with a gate the flow does not pass
through the critical depth.
  Figure 10.10(a) illustrates free discharge through a vertical penstock gate in the wall of a
tank. The gate opening forms an orifice. The flow passing under the gate has a vertical
contraction and, in the plane of the gate itself, there will be vertical components of flow.
Thus the minimum depth occurs downstream of the gate at a point referred to as the vena
contracta. Assuming negligible energy loss between the upstream section and the vena
contracta, Bernoulli's equation can be applied along a streamline flow between points 1
and 2.

            H, + z - V21/2g + Yl + z - V~/2g + Y2 + z

where yl and y2 are the upstream and downstream depths from the water surface to the
centre of the opening. If Y2 is small, then

            V~/2g- O 1

and, since Q = VA

            Q = A2v/(2gHl)

If the area of the gate opening is A0 and the area of the vena contracta A2 is CcAo, where
Cc is the contraction coefficient, then

            Q = CcAov/(2gH1)

In practice the assumption that energy losses are negligible is not strictly true and the


                               Totalenergyflow
        |                Ill
                                                       |                               TEL

        T
  Yl H, Area,
                                                                                Vena
                                                    GateI        ~             ~
                         ~       Area,A2          opening w                            ---
                Datum                            //////////////~////////////

(a)                                              (b)

Figure 10.10 Orifice and undershot gate flow: (a) orifice flow, (b) undershot gate.
                                                                 10.10 Froude numbers     483


equation needs to be written in the more general form
         Q -- CDAox/(2gyl)                                                            (10.21)
where CD is a discharge coefficient, and the flow is related to the upstream depth rather
than the energy head. Typically, for a sharp-edged opening, CD is about 0.6. If the edges of
the opening are more rounded, then the value approaches closer to 1.0.
   For the case where the jet is not freely discharging but the opening is drowned, Y2
becomes significant and, referring back to Bernoulli's equation above and going through
the same procedure
         Q-- CDAoV/2g(yl - Y2) = CDAov/(2gAy)                                         (10.22)
where Ay is the difference in water levels across the gate.
  The same equations apply to the case of a sluice gate in a channel, as illustrated in Fig.
10.10(b), but now the depth is the total water depth to the channel invert rather than to the
centre of the opening. For a full-width, freely-discharging gate with sharp-edged lip, the
discharge coefficient varies between about 0.5 for low depths of submergence (yl/w = 2.0)
up to about 0.58 for submergence ratios of l0 and more, where w is the height of the gate
opening as shown in Fig. 10.10(b).


10.10 Froude numbers
Before dealing with headloss in open-channels, one further useful concept is worth
introducing. The flow can be characterised by its Froude number. This is a non-
dimensional grouping of the flow parameters, which can be shown to represent the relative
magnitudes of inertial and gravitational forces acting on the fluid. The Froude number, F,
is defined as
               V
        F = v/(gy )                                                                   (10.23)

where y is depth of flow (m) and g in metric terms is 9.81 m/s 2.
 Its usefulness lies in the fact that at the minimum energy condition, the critical depth,
              2Hs
        Yc=     3
as shown in eqn (10.17). Hence the kinetic energy of the critical velocity, Vc, equals the
balance of Hs available, i.e.   "
         V2    Hc     Yc
         2g     3      2
Thus
         Vc = x/(gYc)                                                                 (10.24)
So, when the flow passes through critical conditions the Froude number, V/v/(gy), has a
value of 1.0. For sub-critical flow the depth is greater and the velocity lower, therefore the
Froude number is always less than 1.0; for supercritical flow the opposite is true and the
Froude number is always greater than 1.0. Calculation of the Froude number thus
provides an immediate check on the type of flow and how near the flow conditions are to
those at critical depth. The closer the Froude number is to 1.0 the more unstable the water
484   Hydraulics

surface becomes with waves and surface disturbances. As a general rule it is preferable to
design channels with Froude numbers outside the range of 0.6 to about 1.5.


10.11 Head losses in channels
The concepts of head losses in channels are exactly the same as those in pipes. There are
both 'friction' losses and local losses and the same equations can be applied. However, as
noted before, there is the complication that the water depth can vary so that the velocity is
not a function only of the flow.


Normal depth
In a long straight channel of constant cross-section the flow will reach an equilibrium
depth when the rate of loss of energy through the turbulence generated by the drag of the
boundaries equals the rate at which potential energy is given up by the fall in elevation.
When the flow reaches this condition the depth remains constant and the slope of the
channel bed, the water surface and the energy line are all equal. This equilibrium depth of
flow is known as the normal depth. It should be noted that it applies to both sub- and
super-critical flow. Strictly, the resistance equations apply to this condition of normal
depth. The pipe equations can be used for open-channels but they need to be modified for
the different cross-sectional parameters. Instead of the pipe diameter, the relevant
dimension is the hydraulic mean depth, R, also commonly referred to as the hydraulic
radius. This is defined as                      ,.




        R=A/P
where A is the area of the cross-section of the flow and P is the wetted perimeter, i.e. the
portion of the perimeter of the channel surface in contact with the flow.


Manning's formula
Although it is possible to use the full Colebrook-White equations for open-channel flow,
by far the most widely used equation for calculation of normal depth in open-channel flow
is Manning's equation:

              R2/3il/2
         V=                                                                           (10.25)

where n is a coefficient relating to the roughness of the channel. This form of the equation
is in metric units. In some countries, particularly in Europe, it is also known as Strickler's
equation. It should be noted that this equation is not dimensionally balanced and hence n
has dimensions of length to the power of one-sixth. Some typical values of Manning's
coefficient are given in Table 10.2. For more detailed information on channel roughness,
see Reference 4.
   Despite the dimensional nature of the Manning's equation, it is almost universally used
for open-channel head loss calculations and there is a great deal of guidance on suitable
values for the coefficient. Its use is strongly recommended.
                                                         10.11 H e a d losses in channels   485


Table 10.2 Values of Manning's roughness coefficient n

Surface                                                                Manning's coefficient n
Smooth metallic                                                        0.010
Large welded steel pipes with coal-tar lining                          0.011
Smooth concrete or small steel pipes                                   0.012
Riveted steel or flush-jointed brickwork                               0.015-0.017
Rough concrete                                                         0.017
Rubble (fairly regular)                                                0.020
Old rough or tuberculated pipes                                        0.025-0.035
Cut earth (gravelly bottom)                                            0.025-0.030
Natural watercourse in earth                                           0.030-0.040
Natural watercourse in earth but with bank growths                     0.050-0.070




Chezy formula
The equivalent equation to the Darcy-Weisbach equation is the Chezy equation which is
written as

          V = C(Ri) ~                                                                   (10.26)

where C is a coefficient related to the roughness of the channel and i is the hydraulic
gradient = H / L (the slope of the energy line). Like the Darcy equation this equation is
dimensionally correct so that C has no units.
   Comparing equation 10.26 to the Darcy-Weisbach formula, eqn (10.5), and noting that
for a pipe running full R = 7rd2/47rd = d/4
          c = ,/(8g//)

So it can be seen that, strictly, C will vary, in a similar manner to the friction factor, as a
function of relative roughness and Reynold's number. In practice the Reynold's numbers
related to most open-channel conditions are such as to put the flow regime into the rough
turbulent region of the Moody diagram, where the variation of friction factor and hence of
C is small. Thus the assumption that C is constant is reasonable in most cases.
   The value of C can be derived from values of Manning's n because, for given values of i
and V:
          RZ/3/n = CR1/2

i.e. C = R 1/6 n.

Local head losses
As with pipeline fittings, head losses occur in open channels at any change of channel
geometry. The calculation of losses is made in a similar manner, i.e. as a function of the
velocity head. The complication with open channel losses is that it is often not possible to
use a single, standard velocity as in the case of a pipe of constant diameter. It is common,
486   Hydraulics

therefore, to express the headloss at a change of section in terms of the difference in
velocity heads, thus


           A H = K(.V~         V~)                                                     (10.27)
                   \2g         2g/

where V1 and V2 are the upstream and downstream velocities respectively and it is the
positive value of the difference to which the empirical coefficient is applied. Care must be
taken in interpreting data on the coefficients, however, as this form of the expression is not
universal. Some data may be presented in terms of a single reference velocity as is done for
pipes. For example, losses at a channel bend of constant cross-section can only relate to a
single velocity. Table 10.3 provides some values of K.



10.12 Hydraulic jump
One other form of local energy loss should be introduced at this point. In the discussion of
critical depth and its development over a weir crest or in a flume, there was the inherent
assumption that the flow could smoothly accelerate from sub-critical conditions through
critical depth to super-critical flow. Practical observation confirms that that is the case.
Accelerating flow tends to damp down any turbulence. The reverse is not true. To pass
from super-critical to sub-critical flow is much more difficult without a significant energy
loss. The flow is decelerating and expanding and almost always this leads to a region of
turbulence and energy loss. This is known as a hydraulic jump in which the water surface
rises abruptly from the fast shallow flow to the deeper sub-critical flow downstream.
Figure 10.11 illustrates a hydraulic jump downstream of a sluice gate.


Table 10.3 Local channel headloss coefficients

 Feature                                                                       Loss coefficient
 Bends (a)
      rib > 3 (B is surface width)                                             0.15
      r/B <3 but > 1                                                           0.15- 0.6
      90~ single mitre                                                         1.2
      45~ single mitre                                                         0.3
 Transitions
     square ended        - inlet                                               0.5
                         - outlet                                              1.0
      cylinder quadrant- inlet                                                 0.4
                       - outlet                                                0.6
      smooth tapered         - inlet                                           0.1
                         -     outlet                                          0.2

Loss coefficients for other elements can be taken as the same as for pipe elements provided the
Froude no. of the flow is less than about 0.3.
(a)Based on average channel velocity.
                                                  10.13 Non-uniform, gradually variedflow 487

  TEL                                                                               Energy lost in hydraulic jump

                                                               ~ . ~
                                                                         ~" ~                               TEL



                                                                        1f/"                      r

                                          f~_         ~-,"~-           ,-, .              depth, Y2
                                              ~   I                    Heglon
                                                                       of high
                                         Yl           ~                turbulence

                                          |                                                       |
Figure 10.11 Hydraulic jump downstream of a gate.

   A hydraulic jump is a good way of 'destroying' surplus energy and is often deliberately
introduced for that purpose, such as at the foot of a dam spillway or downstream of a
control gate. It enables the potentially erosive power of the high velocity flow to be
reduced in a controlled fashion before the flow is released into the river downstream. The
region of high turbulence is contained locally within the structure.
   Because there is a high energy loss across a hydraulic jump, it is not possible to use the
energy equation to analyse the phenomenon. Instead, the theory of a hydraulic jump is
based on the theory of momentum. With reference to Fig. 10.11 it can be seen that the only
external force on the jump is the friction on the floor of the channel. Within the jump itself
this is relatively small and can be ignored, so that the assumption made is that the net
pressure force acting on the f l o w - the difference in the downstream and upstream
hydrostatic pressures - is equal to the net momentum loss of the flow. This is treated more
fully in other hydraulic texts 4'5 but it can be shown that for a jump to form, the
downstream or tailwater depth, Y2, must be equal to or greater than that given by:
        Y2 = yl{(1 + 8/72)~ - 1}                                                                        (10.28)
                        .!

where F1 is the Froude number of the upstream, super-critical flow of depth y~. The value
of Y2 given by this equation is known as the sequent depth.
   If the tailwater level is less than the sequent depth then the super-critical flow will
continue further downstream until it has lost enough energy or until there is sufficient
tailwater depth for the jump to form. If, on the other hand, the tailwater depth is greater
than the sequent depth, then the jump will be forced upstream until the balance is re-
established. Thus, for example, considering the jump downstream of the sluice gate shown
in Fig. 10.11, if there were another gate downstream controlling the tailwater level, then
closing this second gate would increase the tailwater depth and force the hydraulic jump to
move upstream. Ultimately it would drown out the first gate, which would then operate
with a submerged, drowned discharge as discussed earlier.


10.13 Non-uniform, gradually varied flow
So far only flow in a long straight channel where the equilibrium of normal depth can be
reached has been considered. In practice long straight channels are something of a rarity;
488   Hydraulics


in many instances the channel shape will be changing or the slope varying. Even if the
channel is straight and uniform, it may not be long enough for the flow to reach normal
depth. Thus although normal depth and uniform flow are useful concepts, in many cases
this condition will not exist and neither the water surface nor the hydraulic gradient will be
at a uniform slope.
   One obvious example of conditions where the longitudinal profile of the water surface is
curved, is the local drawdown of the flow as it speeds up to pass over a weir. This is a local
effect and, as discussed earlier, the simplifying assumptions underlying the theory no
longer hold true. It also the case that the depth of flow upstream of a weir, dictated by the
hydraulic control of the weir, is unlikely to be the normal depth in the channel, but moving
further upstream the depth will gradually change towards normal depth.
   This can be more clearly visualised by considering the flow in a river entering a
reservoir. The flow is slowing down and getting deeper, with the water surface changing
from a slope approximately parallel to the average river bed slope, to a horizontal level at
the reservoir, as illustrated in Fig. 10.12. On the other hand, downstream of the crest of the
dam spillway, the flow will accelerate away from the critical depth and will get shallower
and faster, as shown in Fig. 10.12. Another good example of the curvature of the water
surface is that of flow under a sluice gate into a horizontal channel downstream as
illustrated in Fig. 10.11. Energy must be lost through the resistance of the channel bed and
the flow must slow down. This means that the depth must increase and the water surface
will curve upwards.
   The problem is how to calculate the water surface profile in any of these cases or other
situations, such as that of a river with varying cross-section and with occasional
obstructions such as bridges or weirs? Before examining this problem it needs to be
stressed that, in all the following cases, steady flow is assumed. The depth and velocity of
flow may vary with position, but the total flow at any point remains constant. The
introduction of changes to the flow with time adds another level of complexity to the
problem; such conditions are then described as d y n a m i c or transient and are almost always
 analysed using computer programs, and are beyond the scope of this book.
   Returning to the energy equation, consider the flow at two points, distance L apart, in a
 non-uniform channel, as shown in Fig. 10.13.
   Between the two points, AL apart, the head loss, A H is given by

          A H = Hi + A z - H2 - ( v Z / 2 g + y , ) + A z - ( v Z / 2 g + Y2)




                         Flowslowingdown
~                                 reservoir
77-7...>....., ""--------~        ---------                                          Flowaccelerating
  i_///                                                                         ~        stepspillway


                                              Reservoir              " ~/ / /             "
                                                                                    Dam

Figure 10.12 Examples of gradually-varied flow profiles.
                                                                   10.13 Non-uniform, gradually varied flow                 489

         ~ .~        Total energy line
    -.          ..... ~             ,i , / S, l o/ p e ,                Average slope of energy line, i


                           V~
           l
                                              ......       .....                                          l ......
                 ~     '             ~                                     .....                    Head loss z~H

          H,
                           Yl                                                           Slope i2          ]          g

                                                                                                          t

          Zl      .
                      Z=   Z 1 --Z 2
                           ~     .       ..                                                                                 1
         Z                      |                           Datum



                           I-                                      AL                        . . . .      I
    Figure 10.13 Energy loss in non-uniform flow.


    Substituting Q/A for V

                 AH_            Q2/(A~2g) + y, + ,5,z z Q2/(A~2g ) ~ )'2                                                 (!0.29)
    If the length AL is short, the average slope, i, of the energy line can be taken as
    approximating to the mean of i~ and i2 so that
                 ~ H = AL(i] + i2)/2                                                                                     (10.30)
where il and i 2 a r e the slopes of the energy line at Sections 1 and 2.
   There are thus two equations for AH. From the known geometry of the channel and
starting from a known depth of flow y~ at Section 1 for flow Q , the hydraulic gradient i~
can be calculated from the Manning or Chezy formula. Using i l A L as the loss of energy
AH to Section 2, a first approximation of the depth of flow Y2 can be obtained (because H
- A H = Q2/(AZ/2g) + Y2). From this i2 can be calculated, so that a revised estimate of the
hydraulic energy loss AH' = AL(il + i2)/2 can be used to calculate a more accurate value
of Y2. By further repetitions, Y2 can be calculated to the desired degree of accuracy. Thus
the computation can be progressively carried out for further points downstream giving the
profile of the water level. For reasonable accuracy, the distance steps AL should be
reasonably short, having regard to the change of slope of the hydraulic gradient.
   Such calculations can be carried out by hand, (though for non-rectangular channels they
are very tedious), but are now normally undertaken with a spreadsheet or more probably
with a computer program developed for the purpose. Many organisations have developed
their own program and there are a number of programs commercially available, the most
widely known probably being HEC 2 (now marketed as HEC2-RAS), developed by the
Hydrological Engineering Centre in the USA.
   There are three further points to make about this type of calculation.
490   Hydraulics


(i) The basic theory includes the inherent assumptions as listed in Section 10.9 for weirs.
      Thus, the approach cannot be used accurately where there are rapid changes to the
      water surface, for example close to a weir crest or through a flume.
(ii) The starting point for any calculation must be a known flow and depth. In many cases
      this will be a hydraulic control, such as flow over a weir crest or through a gate where
      the water level can be directly calculated. It should be noted that such a control
      defines the water profiles both upstream and downstream. Thus for the sub-critical
      flow, the calculation proceeds upstream from the control, whilst for super-critical flow
      the calculation can proceed in the downstream direction, i.e. the profile in sub-critical
      conditions is affected by what happens downstream, and the super-critical flow profile
      is affected by what happens upstream.
(iii) In some cases there may be no hydraulic control which defines a specific depth at any
      point; for example, a long river reach with no control structures. In such a case it may
      be adequate to assume a normal depth control in the reach downstream of the length
      of interest (assuming sub-critical flow) and to check the sensitivity of the water levels
      to that assumption.
The most common calculation relates to finding the water profile of sub-critical flow,
flowing towards some hydraulic control. This type of calculation is known as a backwater
calculation and the water-surface profile is known as a backwater profile as the
calculations proceed upstream from the control point.


10.14 Measurement weirs
In Section 10.9 it was shown that, provided there is free, undrowncd discharge over the
crest of a weir, then the flow will pass through critical depth and the upstream water level
will be uniquely controlled by the flow rate and the geometry of the crest. In theory,
therefore, any weir can be used for measurement but, in practice, a limited number of
standard crest shapes tend to be used, partly because experience has shown that these are
the most accurate and practical structures for a particular application and partly because
the discharge coefficients and the limiting conditions for their accuracy are well known.
British and other international standards are available for such weirs, covering the
standard geometries, measurement requirements and other features. Reference 6 provides
a definitive discussion of the weirs ands flumes used for open-channel flow measurement.
For non-standard shapes, either detailed model tests or site calibration must be carried
out.
   For conditions, which meet the underlying assumptions laid out in Section 10.9, the
upstream total head, H, is given by eqn (10.19), i.e.
         Q = 2/3v/(2g/3)bHl"5= 1.705bH 15                                              (10.31)
with g = 9.81 m/s 2 in metric terms, and the general equation is therefore
         O = CabH 15                                                                   (10.32)
For measurement weirs, the general weir equation is (by tradition) normally written as
         O - Cd2/3v/(2g)bH 1"5                                                         (10.33)
where, for eqn (10.33) to be equivalent to equation 10.31, CId has the value l/v/3.
  In practice C'd varies from the value 1/v/3 according to the shape and type of weir crest.
                                                                         10.14 Measurement weirs              491


Broad-crested weir
For the broad-crested weir, illustrated in Fig. 10.8(b), the discharge coefficient, C'd is
indeed about l/v/3 = 0.577. However, it is easier to measure the actual water level, h,
above the weir crest, than total energy head H (including the velocity of approach head),
and hence the equation is normally written as

          Q = Cv0.577 (2/3)x/(2g)bh 15 = Cvl.705bh i5                                                 (10.34)

where h is measured away from the local draw-down of the water surface as it passes over
the crest, and Cv is a velocity coefficient to account for the approach velocity head. If the
approach velocity is small then Cv can be taken as 1.0 and for other cases the effect of
approach velocity head can be calculated and included in Cv.


Sharp-crested, or thin-plate weirs
Sharp-crested weirs, usually formed from a metal plate, are used in a variety of situations.
They are simple, and because the plate can be machined to a high degree of accuracy, they
can be very accurate flow measurement devices. However, because the plate becomes
heavy and unwieldy for large flows, they are used particularly for small and medium flows,
and not generally for river flow measurement. There are a number of standard shapes
adopted, which are described by the shape cut out of the plate - rectangular of full channel
width; or rectangular with side contractions as illustrated in Fig. 10.14; or V-notch with a
central angle, 0 ; or less commonly, trapezoidal.


                                                                                    1"2 mm--"l I"--
                                                               45~minimum for._
                                                              rectangular notch ~    y ~

                                                                 60oTvninmoZ . . ~          ~    Detail of
                                                                                                 weir plate



                                         b = ,1:2h or 0.3 m
                                         and :1,B- 4 h
                                   ',i




P = height to weir lip, ,t 2h or
0.3 m (or r h or 0.1 m for weir
with no end contractions)

Figure 10.14 Rectangular weir with fully developed end contractions.
492     Hydraulics

   For a rectangular weir with no end contractions, i.e. across the full width of the channel,
the discharge coefficient, for use in eqn (10.33), can be taken from the empirically-derived
Rehbock formula:

          C~/= 0.602 +   O.O83h/P                                                      (10.35)

where h is the water depth over the weir crest, and P is the height of the weir crest above
the floor of the channel.
   For a rectangular weir with fully developed end contractions as illustrated in Fig. 10.14

          C~ = 0.616(1 -   O.lh/P)                                                     (10.36)

For a 90 ~ V-notch weir, i.e. with the central angle = 90 ~ C'a is given by the following
table:

h (m)         0.050        0.075      O.1O0        O.125       O.150        0.200       0.300
C~            0.608        0.598      0.592        0.588       0.586        0.585       0.585

  In this latter case correction factors must be applied if the base of the channel is less
than 2.5h below the base of the notch, or if the width of the approach channel is less than
5h, where h is the depth of water measured above the vertex o.f the notch.
  In all cases for thin plate weirs there are a number of requirements for accurate
measurements:
(i) the water depth should be measured at distance between 3h and 4h upstream;
(ii) if the waterway of the approach channel is less than 10 times the area of the waterway
      over the weir crest then a correction factor must be included to take into account the
      velocity of approach;
(iii) the downstream water level must be below the level of the crest, i.e. no submergence
      can be allowed; and
(iv) most importantly, the nappe (or underside) of the falling water must be well aerated to
      ensure atmospheric pressure there. This means that, for a full width rectangular weir
      in a channel whose walls extend downstream, an air pipe must be provided to allow
      aeration of the pocket beneath the nappe.
A limitation of sharp-edged weirs is that they can be damaged by debris brought down by
the flow, and the shape of the machined edge to the plate is important for accurate
measurement.

Crump weirs
Where new measurement weirs are constructed on rivers and stream in the U K by far the
most widely used weir is the Crump weir, so-called after the engineer who developed it as a
measuring device. The profile is triangular with an upstream slope of 1:2 and a
downstream slope of 1:5 as shown in Fig. 10.15.
   There are several advantages to the Crump weir, not least of which is that the discharge
coefficient is very nearly constant over a wide range of discharges. Cdfor use in eqn (10.20)
is almost exactly 2.0 (C} in eqn (10.33) thus equals 0.677). Other advantages are - (i) the
weir allows movement of sediment past the weir (deposition of silt against the vertical
upstream face of most other types of weirs being a problem); (ii) the weir is easy to build
accurately, particularly with a pre-formed bronze crest angle built into the concrete
                                                                                10.15 Measurement flumes   493

                                                                Separation pocket




/   /   /   /   /   /   /   /   /   /   7   ..... ~         ~                           - "~   -/-/-/-///////
                                                      Possible truncation
                                                      of structure to
                                                      reduce length

Figure 10.15 Crump weir profile.


structure; and (iii) the high modular limit which the weir can tolerate before the discharge
is significantly affected - the limit for the ratio of tailwater depth above the crest to the
upstream depth being about 0.8.
   Furthermore, the Crump weir can provide reasonably accurate flow measurement even
if it is operating beyond the modular limit. The flow over a weir, once it is drowned,
becomes a function of both the upstream and downstream water levels. For most weirs,
this requires measuring the water level downstream in the area of high turbulence where
the jet expands. This can be difficult and inaccurate, particularly as the critical difference
between the tailwater and upstream depth is small. With a Crump profile weir, instead of
the direct measurement of the tailwater level, the pressure in the separation pocket
immediately downstream of the weir crest is measured (see Fig. 10.15). The pressure in this
pocket reflects the downstream tailwater level when the weir is drowned. It is a much more
stable parameter than the turbulent water surface level downstream and can be measured
more accurately. It thus enables the Crump weir to be used relatively accurately for
measuring flow even when drowned. A rating curve can be developed for drowned flow
using this parameter.
   The one disadvantage of a Crump weir is that it can be a fairly long structure with
consequent extra costs but it has been extensively model tested and criteria have been
developed for truncation of the shape, i.e. neither the upstream nor downstream slopes
need necessarily extend to the floor of the channel. Also investigated thoroughly has been
the calibration of Crump weirs constructed with the crest sloping towards the centre such
that the crest, in elevation, appears as a shallow Vee. This has the advantage of
concentrating low flows towards the centre of the weir and giving greater accuracy of
measurement over a wide range of flows.


10.15 Measurement flumes
The principles behind the use of a flume as a measurement device are identical to those for
a weir. The basic concepts of a flume were discussed in Section 10.9. In essence a flume is a
constriction in the channel such that the width is reduced, forcing the flow through critical
depth. Provided the requirements behind the simple theory, set out in Section 10.9 are met,
then again eqn (10.31) applies to undrowned flow through a flume, i.e.

                        Q - - 1.705bHl.S
494   Hydraulics

Rectangular-throated flume
The flume equivalent to the broad-crested weir is the rectangular-throated flume as
illustrated in Fig. 10.16. A flume can also have a raised floor as well as a narrowed throat
but since one of the advantages of a flume over weir is that it can more readily pass
sediment, any raising of the floor probably needs to be limited and with as smooth an inlet
transition as practical. Downstream of the throat the flow will be super-critical and a
hydraulic jump will form in the downstream channel. It is important that the tailwater
level downstream of the jump does not drown out the critical depth in the flume and if
necessary a fall must be introduced into the downstream channel to ensure that the water
flowing away is at a low enough level.
   For a rectangular-throated flume as in Fig. 10.16, the length of the throat must be not
less than 1.5 times the maximum total head upstream. It is also necessary that the surfaces
of the flume are smooth, whether of concrete or constructed with a pre-formed steel or
fibre-glass insert, and also that the divergence downstream must not exceed 1:6 and that
the approach flow must be sub-critical. The upstream level measurement should be
between 3h and 4h upstream of the flume inlet, where h is the upstream depth of water
above the invert of the throat.
   As with weirs, the discharge equation is usually modified to relate to the upstream depth
of flow in the channel, h:

         Q = Cvl.705bhlS(or Q = Cabh15)                                                                        (10.37)


                                      R=2(B-b)


                   l                  .......
      IIIIIIIIIII/111/111111111111111111/111111111111
      Head
      measuring
      point
                    B              b r hi3 or 0.1 m)




       ,an
      ///i/I/I/I/i///////////////////////////////////
       ,1"--E= 3h to 4h----" I        l_    L:     1.5h        _l_        .          D : 3 ( B - b)




                                                                    !               Total energy line

       ,S h     Cv               ~    ~ -                 .             __~   . - 0 .-..0 - ' O - ' O ~ ~ -




      ////////'/~//
              P                      . .:...~...              ..:                                  9   .   .




                                     R>4P

Figure 10.16 Rectangular-throated flume.
                                                  10.16 Venturi and orifice flow meters    495


where Cv is again a coefficient to account for the approach velocity. More generally the
equation is written as

         Q = CvC~l.705bh 15                                                            (10.38)

where Cs is a shape coefficient to take into the particular geometry of the flume. For the
smooth-entry flume illustrated in Fig. 10.16, the values for Cs depend on the ratios, L/b
and h/L as shown in the table below, where L is length and b the width of the throat.

                 L/b
 h/L             0.4-1.0              2.0              3.0               4.0              5.0
                                                       G
 0.1             0.95                 0.94             0.94              0.93             0.93
 0.2             0.97                 0.97             0.96              0.95             0.95
 0.4             0.98                 0.98             0.97              0.97             0.96
 0.6             0.99                 0.98             0.97              0.97             0.96


Other standard flumes
There are, of course, many other designs of flumes and the geometry determines the
particular discharge coefficient Ca for use in eqn (10.37), or the shape coefficient for use in
eqn (10.38). In the USA, the Parshall flume is widely used but it has a relatively
complicated geometry which varies depending on the range of flows to be measured and is
rarely used in the UK. One disadvantage of the rectangular-throated flume is that it is
relatively long and the cut-throat flume has been developed as a shorter alternative. This
has tapering inlet and outlet sections which meet at an angle at the throat. The shape
coefficient is reduced from that for a rectangular-throated flume.
   One final point regarding the use of flume and weirs should be noted. For free or
modular discharge, the tailwater level can, as a general approximation, be no higher than
the level of the critical depth flow at the throat or crest. (For thin-plate weirs a much lower
limit must be set.) Generally, therefore, at least one third of the upstream specific energy
head must be lost at the structure. Because flumes force critical depth by increasing the
unit discharge rather than reducing the specific energy as do weirs, a flume will have a
greater critical depth in the throat than a weir in the same location. Thus a flume will cause
a greater head loss than a weir. (For a flume the drop in water level is one-third the depth
of flow in the approach channel; for a weir it is one-third the height of water above the
weir cill - which is less - see Figs 10.8b and 10.16.) Hence, if head loss is a critical issue,
then this must be a factor in the choice of measurement structure.


10.16 Venturi and orifice flow meters
These types of flow meter apply to flow in closed conduits and work on the principle
demonstrated by the Bernoulli equation: if the velocity of flow is increased then the
pressure must drop. In both Venturi and orifice meters the flow is passed through a
constriction in the pipeline causing the velocity to increase. The two types of meter are
shown in Fig. 10.17 and the measurement principle is illustrated in Fig. 10.18.
496     Hydraulics



                                           on




                               (a)                                    (b)
Figure 10.17 (a) Orifice meter, (b) Dall-type Venturi meter.


  Returning to the energy equation and assuming the pipeline is level and that head losses
between sections A and B are negligible, the head difference between the two sections, A
and B, is given by

          /xh - h~ - h . = ( v ~ 2g
                                 - v])                                                                                    (10.39)

Since

          Q - 7rD2/4. VA = 7rd2/4. V~

where D and d and A and a are the pipeline and constriction diameters and areas
respectively, eqn (10.39) can be re-written as

                    7rd2(2gAh) 1/2
          Q
                  411 -(d/D)4] 1/2

or



          Q = akAhl/2


                          Iv;        2                      2


                                                        ~       rE,


          //////                ///////////~/,,,      h~l|       .,,//_.~~///////
                                                -'.<Z///V///~~.--~--
Diameter  D
      .'_. . .
                          ~'A
                 . . . . . .
                                                        1                        'l ,Diameter-',d
   Area, A                                                                           ~ Area, a
         ////////////////'///                                           .   ,,   /    /   /   /   /   /   /   /   /   /



Figure 10.18
                                                                10.17 Other flow meters     497


where

         k =         (2g) 1/2
               [1 - ( d / D ) 4 ] 1/2                                                   (10.40)

 In practice there are head losses between A and B and it is not necessarily the case that the
stream lines at the constriction will be parallel even for the venturi. Thus a further
coefficient C must be introduced, so that

         Q - CakAh 1/2                                                                  (10.41)

For a venturi meter C varies from about 0.95 to 0.99 depending on the exact geometry.
Typically a well-designed meter with parallel-sided throat will have a value of about 0.98.
The Dall tube illustrated in Fig. 10.17 is a shortened version of the venturi and the value of
C will be less.
   The theory behind an orifice meter is exactly the same, and eqn (10.40) equally applies.
But C will vary much more, depending on the velocity of flow and the ratio diD. If the
latter is in the typical range of 0.4-0.6 and for pipe diameters greater than 200 ram, the
value of C will be in the range 0.60 to 0.61 for the usual velocities experienced in a pipeline.
   The accuracy of measurement of both venturi and orifice meters depends on the lateral
flow distribution through the device and can be severely affected by flow disturbances
created by fittings in a pipe system. Detailed conditions for accurate measurement are laid
down in BS 1042 Part 1. These can generally be met by ensuring that for did ratios not
exceeding 0.6, there are at least 20 diameters of straight pipe without a fitting upstream of
the meter and seven diameters of straight pipe downstream. The venturi is designed to
minimise the head loss and this can be made very small with a well-designed expansion
downstream of the throat providing good recovery of pressure head. The head loss
through an orifice is substantially higher because of the sudden expansion of the diameter
downstream. If head loss is an important consideration, then a venturi meter such as the
illustrated Dall tube, should be considered, but venturis are more expensive and require
greater space than an orifice meter


10.17 Other flow meters
There are a number of other types of flow meters that are widely used in the water
industry. The principles on which they operate are not the same as those outlined in the
foregoing material.

Propeller or turbine meters
These use a freely-rotating, bladed rotor positioned in the flow, the speed of rotation being
measured, usually by a pick-off coil mounted in the housing, which senses the passage of
the rotor blades. Pulses are thus generated which can be counted over a known time. There
are many variations on the basic concept and each manufacturer has his own designs for
use in different applications. The speed of rotation is related to the fluid speed so this type
of meter is essentially a velocity meter and it is necessary to know the area through which
the total flow is passing and the velocity distribution across that area. For large conduits it
may be necessary to carry out velocity traverses across the section to establish the
relationship between velocity at a particular location and the total flow rate.
498   Hydraulics

Electromagnetic flowmeters
The operation of this type of flow meter is based on Faraday's Law of electro-magnetic
induction from which it can be shown that an induced voltage in a conducting fluid as it
moves through a magnetic field is proportional to the mean velocity of the fluid, the
strength of the magnetic flux, and the size of the conduit. For any particular installation a
relationship can be developed relating the induced voltage to the total flow through the
conduit. They are thus integrating meters and do not depend on the velocity profile across
the section. To induce a measurable potential in the electrodes of the instrument placed
either side of the conduit, a magnetic field is generated by means of a coil or coils usually
arranged as saddles wrapped around the pipe or, in the case of a river measurement,
buried under the river bed. These types of meter are increasingly being used in the water
industry, particularly for measuring flows in pipes. They provides zero headloss and no
obstruction to the flow and are available in a wide range of sizes. Further information is
given in Section 15.15.

Ultrasonic flowmeters
The usual type of ultrasonic meter operates on the principle of the measurement of the
time difference between sound waves transmitted through the flow in opposite directions.
If the beams are transmitted diagonally across the flow then the wave travelling
downstream will have a higher velocity than the one travelling back upstream. The time
difference is a function of the flow velocity. There is a second type of ultrasonic meter in
which a beam of known frequency is reflected back from particles in the flow and the
Doppler shift in frequency of the reflected wave is indicative of the velocity.
   As with propeller or turbine meters, this type of flow meter measures average velocity
along the path of the beam. The measurement of flow is therefore dependent on the
velocity profile. In large systems, particularly in channels and rivers, multi-path systems
are commonly installed, in which several pairs of transducers are located at different levels
to provide better accuracy. Also, in a open-channel situation, measurement is needed of
the water level, or depth, and this can be provided with an ultrasonic water level probe
located above the water surface such that a sound wave is transmitted vertically
downwards and reflected from the surface.
   Ultrasonic flowmeters of the transit time type are reasonably accurate if installed and
operated correctly but have a tendency to long-term instability. Doppler meters are less
accurate and can only be used on dirty water. As with electro-magnetic systems, ultrasonic
meters need provide no obstruction to the flow and provide no head loss. Clamp-on meters,
requiring no intrusion into a pipeline, are becoming increasingly reliable and accurate.


References
  1. Moody L. F. Friction factors for pipes. Trans ASME, 66, 1944.
  2. Hydraulics Research Station and Ball D. I. H. Tables for the Hydraulic Design of
     Pipes, Sewers and Channels, 7th edn. Thomas Telford, London.
  3. Miller D. S. Internal Flow Systems, 2nd Edn. BHRA, Bedford UK, 1990.
  4. Ven te Chow, Open Channel Hydraulics, McGraw-Hill, New York, 1959.
  5. Henderson F. M. Open Channel Flow, Macmillan, Basingstoke, 1966.
  6. Ackers P. et al. Weirs and Flumes for Flow Measurement, John Wiley, Chichester, 1978.
                                            11
                  Service reservoirs

11.1     Functions
A service reservoir has four main functions.
(1) To balance the fluctuating demand from the distribution system, permitting the source
    to give a steady or differently phased output.
(2) To give a suitable pressure for the distribution system and reduce pressure fluctuations
    therein.
(3) To provide a supply during a failure or shutdown of treatment plant, pumps or trunk
    main leading to the reservoir.
(4) To provide a reserve of water to meet fire and other emergency demands.
It is seldom possible or economic for a source to give a fluctuating output in step with
demand. Treatment processes need to be run 24 hours a day with only infrequent, carefully
controlled changes of output. Pumps need to be run near their design point for maximum
efficiency, whilst electricity tariffs may influence their running times; it is not economic for
a long supply main to have an overlarge capacity simply to meet the peak demand of a few
hours duration. A technical and economic study of the capital and operating costs of the
various options available should take place, including deciding where the reservoir should
be sited (see Section 14.9). The reservoir minimum water level should generally be just high
enough to maintain the required minimum pressures in the distribution system at peak
flows during the planned life of the scheme. A balance has to be struck between choosing
an unnecessarily high elevation which would raise leakage levels from the distribution
system and increase pumping costs; and the need to have some reserve elevation to meet
increased demand or extension of the system later.


11.2     Reservoir capacity required
Minimum storage to even out hourly demand
A typical graph of the hourly variation of demand for a town of about 75 000 population
is shown in Fig. 11.1(a). The demand reaches a peak typically between 0700 and 0900 and
remains high until after midday. It slackens off in the afternoon but rises again to a second
peak about 1800-1900 in the evening when people, home from work, prepare an evening
meal. During the summer months the evening peak may be higher and more prolonged
due to garden watering. There will be a different pattern of demand at week-ends and on
holidays with peaks occurring later and lasting longer. In the winter there will also be a
higher rate throughout if a severe frost causes many pipe bursts on consumers' premises.
On Fig. 11.1(a) the average demand for the day is shown and, assuming this is the steady
500   Service reservoirs


                                    Peak flow
                  2000              factor 2.1
                  1800

                  1600

                  1400
                                                                         Drawdown
              ~- 1200                                              / s t a r t s 7.00am
          r
              E
                  1000
                   800

                   600

                   400                                    3000 F        ~..'.~/Max             -
                   200                                    4000 [--                   ...... withdrawal
                                                               /
                    0_         I       I       ~    .I         t   I _ i              I        ,,I
                    6am      Noon    6pm     Mdnt   6am      6am Noon 6pm            Mdnt      6am

                         (a) Hourly variation of demand   (b) Cumulative withdrawal from storage

Fig. 11.1 Typical demand variation of 23 ml/day supply.


input from some source into the reservoir, Fig. 11.1(b) shows the consequent withdrawal
from storage starting at 0700 when demand starts to rise above input. A total of 3750 m 3
of stored water is used for an average demand of 960 m3/h, i.e. approaching 4 hours'
storage is required to support the hourly variation of demand. This is commonly found to
be the case for towns in temperate climates.
   In practice a greater storage volume will be required for the following reasons:
(1) there will be variations from one day to the next both in daily peak demands and due
    to seasonal changes in the daily demand pattern;
(2) it will not always be convenient, or possible, to have the reservoir full every morning
    at about 0600;
(3) provision must be made for contingencies (see below) and some storage volume must
    be retained in the bottom of the reservoir for settling sediments.
As a guide much greater flexibility will be provided if the capacity of the reservoir is
increased by about 50%, i.e. to about 6 hours' supply or 25% of the average daily demand.
This is about the minimum practicable storage required solely for the purpose of levelling
out the hourly fluctuations of demand from a distribution system. It must not, however, be
regarded as sufficient to safeguard the continuance of the supply against all contingencies.


Contingency         storage

Contingency storage is required to meet breakdowns at sources, loss of supplies from
major mains bursts and the time to repair them, and loss of water used to meet major fire
demands. The storage required to meet these contingencies cannot be arbitrarily fixed: it
depends upon the nature of the source, the layout of mains, and what safety precautions
are possible.
                                                         11.2 Reservoir capacity required 501

   Borehole pumping stations or boosting stations can have 4-5 hours interruption of
supply due to electricity supply failure, but in any case such stations should be designed for
not more than 22 hours working out of 24, or routine maintenance is difficult. Water
treatment plants also need the ability to shut down for 4-5 hours as a minimum in order to
effect any necessary repairs or alterations. River intake sources present particular hazards
due to sudden pollution, but this is best met by providing raw water storage at the intake
since the polluted water should not pass to the treatment works (see Section 7.1). For the
repair of major trunk mains the following figures are indicative only of what may occur.


Time elapsed before burst reported                                                89
                                                                                   hour (say)
Mobilising repair gang and closing valves to isolate burst pipe                   2 hours
Repairing main:
- 300-600 mm diameter                                                             6-8 hours
- over 600 mm                                                                     8-12 hours
Refilling mains including disinfecting                                            2-4 hours


   In practice, a risk assessment should be carried out for mains deemed to be critical if
they burst. Emergency action plans must be prepared to assess the total time supplies to
consumers would be interrupted following a burst, and what possibilities exist of re-
routing supplies to the affected area. The loss of water following a major burst will also
need to be considered and how such loss would be regained. A major fire can use 5000-
15 000 m 3 of water, but usually notice will be received of this demand and measures should
be possible to increase the output from sources accordingly. The breakdown times quoted
above are what might be termed 'normal': if things go wrong, double the time may elapse
before supply can be restored and every water engineer can think of an instance when this
has happened. Allowance has also to be made for the fact that a major mains burst or fire
demand may occur when the reservoir is already substantially drawn down, such as during
the maximum demand period when the overdraw may rise to 25% of the day's supply.
   Hence, storage to meet contingencies as well as hourly and daily variations of demand
needs to be provided; but where it should be provided depends on the layout of the
distribution system and the output capacity of sourceworks. A study of this is also
required, since contingency storage needs to be located where, through interconnection of
mains, water can be re-routed to areas cut off by a burst main. Taking all these
considerations into account, the overall desirable storage for a system is 24 hours' supply
to cope with variations of demand, major mains bursts and sourceworks servicing and
repair times. This is a widespread provision, albeit not all undertakings achieve it because
of financial constraints. Some undertakings, where reservoir storage levels are continually
monitored from a control room, may find 18 hours' storage adequate provided they can
accept the risk of having to cut or curtail supplies temporarily in an exceptional
emergency. Each water undertaking will need to devise its own strategy for sizing service
reservoirs, involving:

(1) use of a water balance/strategic transfer model especially where a reservoir forms one
    component of a complex system;
(2) use of a formula to take account of peak hour and peak week demand factors
    applying to the area served;
502   Service reservoirs


(3) the provision of additional capacity to meet the extra seasonal demand in holiday
    areas where visitors can cause local demands to increase by as much as 50% at peak
    holiday times;
(4) the provision of additional capacity in service reservoirs receiving pumped inflows to
    permit maximum use of cheap-rate off-peak electricity supplies and keep the
    maximum demand charge to a minimum.


11.3 Reservoir shape and depth
Service reservoirs are generally built with at least two compartments so that one can be
drained for maintenance without putting the whole reservoir out of service. Reservoirs
which are circular in plan are less suitable for subdivision, especially if construction Of the
two compartments is to be phased, when a rectangular shape is usually preferred.
Nevertheless circular tanks permit the use of pre-stressed concrete walls which may offer
an advantage in cost in certain circumstances. For a two-compartment rectangular
reservoir the most economic plan shape is usually obtained when its length (measured
perpendicular to the division wall) is 1.5 times its breadth (measured parallel to the
division wall). These proportions may need alteration in the light of the shape and slope of
the site, the cut and fill balance, depth of inlet/outlet mains and pipework configuration in
relation to circulation, and any future extension likely or amenity requirements. If
significant or abnormal soil settlements are expected, there may be advantages in
providing two adjacent single-compartment reservoirs, which are structurally independent
of one another, instead of one two-compartment reservoir with a common dividing wall.
   There is an economic depth for any service reservoir of a given storage capacity. The
greater the depth the less length of wall and area of roof and floor is needed, though the
unit cost of the wall increases with increased water depth. There can, however, be other
constraints on the depth such as the character of the available site or the desirable range of
distribution pressure required. Depths most usually used for rectangular concrete
reservoirs are

                     Size (m3)                        Depth of water (m)
                     Up to 3500                       2.5-3.5
                     3500-15 000                      3.5-5.0
                     Over 15 000                      5.0-7.0


  The following data then needs to be determined for the design to proceed:
(a) top water level (TWL); usually the level at which the supply into the reservoir is to be
    shut off;
(b) the overflow weir level (OWL); giving a small margin above (a);
(c) the maximum water level (MWL) needed to discharge the maximum possible inflow
    over the overflow weir;
(d) bottom water level (BWL), being the lowest level to which the water should be allowed
    to fall for the purposes of supply;
(e) the fall to be given to the roof and the allowance to be given between the roof soffit
    and the MWL.
                                            11.5 Statutory consents and requirements     503


The freeboard between highest water level and the roof soffit is required for ventilation
and should not be less than 150 mm above MWL or less than 300 mm above TWL.
Settlement of suspended solids may occur in reservoir compartments and will concentrate
on or near the floor. To prevent turbid water being drawn into supply, the operating BWL
should be not less than 150 mm above the highest level of the floor. It may need to be
higher, depending on the outlet arrangements (see Section 11.10).


11.4    Covering and protecting service reservoirs
Flat-roofed concrete reservoirs are usually covered over with earth and grass for
appearance and temperature insulation. This involves maintenance and grass cutting, but
an uncovered reservoir is likely to meet amenity objections. The earth cover to the roof
should comprise grassed top soil 150 mm thick, over a fabric filter membrane laid over
100 mm of single size 20 mm round gravel forming a drainage layer. If there are no
amenity objections, it is possible to use only gravel for the roof cover which should then be
150 mm thick. The earth banks against the external reservoir walls must be designed to
stable slopes and, for ease of grass cutting, should not be steeper than 1 on 2.5. Topsoil
cover to banks should be not less than 150 mm vertical thickness.
   Special attention has now to be paid to ensuring service reservoirs are secure against
vandalism, acts of terrorism and theft. An impact and vulnerability assessment should be
undertaken to determine the level of risk and hence the security measures necessary.
Secure perimeter fencing can minimise ordinary vandalism but is not sufficient protection
by itself. Access manholes to the reservoir can be screwed and locked down; but, if
possible, concealment is better, their location being known. Roof air vents are a problem
because they are a potential source of pollution and access (see Section 11.13). Valve and
instrument houses need to be of strong construction and should have no windows.
Sampling points are necessary on both inlet and outlet mains, and they too should be
protected. All reservoirs should be visited frequently to ensure that none of the protective
measures have been tampered with.


11.5    Statutory consents and requirements
Reservoirs and associated structures will require the consent of the national and local
Planning Authority. Regulations will vary from country to country but, in the UK
reference will have to be made under the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 for
consent, and this action will normally attract comment from various statutory bodies,
local organisations and groups depending on the sensitivity of the location. Early
consultation with these bodies is necessary to resolve any difficulties which could
otherwise result in delay or refusal of the planning application. In the UK, where
nationally or internationally designated nature conservation sites could be affected,
consultation with English Nature, the Countryside Commission for Wales, or Scottish
Natural Heritage is necessary as set out in the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981. Where
the proposed works may affect the apparatus of other statutory undertakers, they must be
consulted, and Notices will need to be served under the New Roads and Street Works Act
1991. A discharge consent from the Environment Agency will be required for overflow and
drain-down discharge into a sewer, soakaway or watercourse. Where public roads are
affected, the Highway Authority should be consulted at an early stage. A range of non-
504    Service reservoirs

statutory consultation may also be required (e.g. The Countryside Agency for landscape,
and English Heritage for archaeology).
   In the UK, if a service reservoir will store more than 25 000 m 3 above natural ground
level of any part of the land adjoining the reservoir, its design and construction have to be
supervised by a Construction Engineer appointed by the water undertaking and who is
one of the civil engineers on a panel of engineers appointed under the Reservoirs Act 1975
Act. 1 The Construction Engineer is required to issue certificates during and after
completion of the reservoir, specifying the water level(s) to which the reservoir may be
filled. During the life of the reservoir, it has to be inspected at intervals not exceeding 10
years by an Inspecting Engineer appointed also from the panel (see Section 5.23).


11.6     Structural design of concrete reservoirs
The type of design adopted depends on the reservoir capacity required, the topography of
the site and nature of its subsoil, and the unit costs of the principal materials required-
concrete, reinforcement and formwork. Two main types of design adopted are: (a) jointed
concrete reservoirs and (b) monolithic concrete reservoirs.


(a) Jointed concrete reservoirs
Jointed concrete reservoirs normally have joints: (i) between lengths of wall, (ii) between
the top of walls and the roof, (iii) between floor panels and their junction with wall bases
and columns, and (iv) in roofs dependent on their area. The floor and walls may be of
plain or reinforced concrete; the roof and its supporting columns are always reinforced.
   The wall design probably most frequently used is the reinforced concrete free-standing
vertical wall cantilevered from a substantial base resting on firm foundation material (see
Fig. 11.2). It has to be designed for active loading of the external soil with the reservoir
empty, and for maximum water pressure less the passive resistance of the soil. The wall
base must be proof against horizontal movement. An unreinforced mass concrete wall can
be used alternatively if cheaper than a reinforced concrete wall and the foundation
material is satisfactory. This resists water pressure by its weight and the passive resistance
of the soil backing. A sliding joint must be provided between top of the reservoir wall and
the roof to prevent roof expansion or contraction imposing a lateral force on the wall.
Contraction joints equipped with waterstops and sealing grooves must be provided at
intervals in the wall, usually at intervals equal to twice the column spacing. Expansion
joints with waterstops must be provided at intervals not exceeding 45 m.
    Columns of reinforced concrete are normally arranged on a rectangular (usually square)
 grid pattern. A column spacing of 5 m results in a flat-slab roof of economic thickness
without the need for dropped panels. This distance is reduced where an expansion joint is
 necessary in the roof and between a wall and the nearest row of columns. Columns may be
 square or round with mushroom heads (pyramidal or conical). The side dimension or
 diameter should be not less than 300 or 350 mm, respectively and not less than one-
 twentieth of the height from reservoir floor to bottom of column head. Columns need to
 be of uniform height for economy in cost of construction, this being obtained by making
 the floor and roof parallel.
    The floor may be of plain or reinforced concrete, cast in square panels having a side
 length equal to the column spacing, and may comprise one of the following designs.
                                                        11.6 Structural design of concrete reservoirs             505

                I 1 00 stone
      ;=        [ chippings           /      ~;       /' 200 r""c       ----1 I~-300
 "        ~    :         .... """~'"" ~                         ~          ~                       150 Topsoil

                        TWL...//~__" ~                T ~ipo~!/~                        3      G       ~           1



     II 6!0
     II
     II
                    I
                          ....
                      Plainconcrete !1
                    ! floor,upper II              c
                                                          .... -- li ii!,e
                                                      Reinforced~               I-I                /   Clayfill
     II             I        layer joint    II
     II             I          sealed       II                            I:.::.::.lil..,. /
              600         175 Upper                                                            o
~         ~     ~        "                            /Blinding~DrainageIayer;'.::! 915
q----rf---                           ~---                           7    ....

                          drain in
                             gravel                                                     All dimensionsin millimetres
Fig. 11.2 Design for a jointed service reservoir where only chippings were required for roof
covering.


(a) An upper layer, with thickness dependent on the water depth but typically 175 mm,
    below which is a lower layer, 100-125 mm thick. A membrane between the layers
    permits sliding of the upper layer. This design is suitable for a clay subsoil.
(b) A single layer, typically 175 mm thick, below which is a 75 mm layer of blinding
    concrete. This design is suitable for founding on a firm, non-compressible material,
    e.g. solid rock, unweathered chalk, firmly compacted and free-draining sand or gravel.
In the two-layer floor (a), usually only the top layer is reinforced, the reinforcement being
discontinuous through the contraction joints. Where a single-layer floor (b) is used, it is
laid on a membrane of low frictional resistance, and it may be unnecessary to provide
reinforcement if the subsoil is firm and of uniform bearing capacity. It is, however,
recommended that reinforcement is provided where the floor is resting on a clay subsoil.
With these types of jointed floors, uplift pressures must be prevented by provision of an
underdrainage system which has a free discharge to a lower level.
   Joints separating floor slabs should be of the 'complete contraction' type, incorporating a
joint sealant at the water face (see Fig. 11.3). Only the upper layer of a two-layered floor
need be so jointed. Centrally-placed waterstops are often used, particularly at floor-to-wall
and the floor-to-column base junctions, but great care is needed to ensure proper
compaction of the concrete under the waterstop which is difficult to place. This problem is
avoided if 'rearguard' waterstops at the base of the floor are used instead; but these tend to
be less effective in preventing outward leakage although they will prevent contamination
from the ingress of ground water. In a two-layer floor, the joints in each layer should be
staggered to avoid vertical alignment. The joints in the lower slab should be arranged
midway between the columns; the joints in the upper slab may then lie on the column grid
506          Service reservoirs

       EXPANSION JOINTS                                                                                ROOF-WALL JOINTS

Flexible expansion                      Polysulphide sealant                                                                Mortar bed,
joint membrane                          compound                                 2 layers sliding/                          steel float finished
                                                                                 bearingstrip ~                              ~        / 25 dia. filler
                                                    HDPE
                                                    waterproof                   Compressible ~                   \                              /               /
                                                    membrane                     filler                      I ~-~-                      --          ~- - ~ - - [
                                                                                                             i ~ . ".       ..-    ....         9 .i.~...)...
                                                                                 32 dia.               " ' "             " 7."~ i
                                                                                 expansion       -~,':"'."." . . ~ \        .... /
                                                                                 strip                 - . . ~i . ~. I9~
                                                Centre bulb                                            ".'.t,.,~ I        20x 10
Compressible non-                               waterstop
absorbent, closed cell,                                                                        / , . " ~ ~ .' i I sealer
polythene joint filler                          PVC capping strip          Waterproof membrane                " " ~1
                                                                           and polythene sheet               '~ ~ :"i
                  ROOF                                                     secured with mastic                4,, " "
                                          Compressible non-                in 20 x 20 rebate
                                          absorbent, closed cell,                              Jointed construction
                                /         polythene joint filler
       i internal f a1c1e' /l /.
      ~"           " r~r '-'               ,.,IlL No steel                       HD gauge polythene                                  Mortar bed,
      ],.,         ~. ~ ~,~                ,~] continuity                        above waterproof ~                                  steel float finished
       !                r.i'        \       I
       I External f a c e ~ l ~ , ,             ~                                membrane          _ _'~._                            \

   Polysulphide sealant   \ Centre bulb
                                                                                                             I/~        /   /     ~v"l     \   .~)       9 ".   v "1
                                                                                 Second ~ ,                     ~'///~IH \ t,                  ~
   compound on both sides   waterstop                                            sta"e ~ , ~ : / / / J r J ~                               ~.
                                                                                                                                           9 ~.l
                                                                                    u  .                    !'~///API
                  WALL                                                           concrete                   i .- . . . . . . -~\ . \,-~  .....   |
                                                                                                                                                 /
                                                                                                            I     ,~"     " "~ . ~ . . " ~
                                                                                                            I, ~"9 .".~,
                                                                                                                    . .        . . \
                                                                                                                                ~. \   !       20x 10
                                          Compressible non-                                                 I;'! .'a'"      .~ ": k, sealer
Polysulphide                              absorbent, closed cell,
sealant compound                          polythene joint filler
                                                                           Waterproof membrane                                             .9t, ..          2 layers
                                                                                                                                         i;~                sliding/
                                                                           and polythene sheet                                                              bearing
      ~~           v' I ~ ' ~              ~~ N~ steel                     secured with mastic
                   ,.,                        continuity                   in 20 x 20 rebate                                /,,                             strip
       1          o"
    I . . . . . . . ?~v~~,~,~-~-r""~ Polythene                                                         Monolithic construction
                                      separating layer
75 mm blinding           External expansion
                         type waterstop
                   FLOOR
                                             CONTRACTION JOINTS
                              Sealant                                                                                   Sealant compound



                   I
                              compound                                                                                  on both faces


                                    v '" ',.,          ", ~ No steel                                                                                 No steel
                        n           ." r "~.           -    continuity                                                                               continuity

                       ,, . . . . ~,,/~,~,,          "<~      Separating layer
                                /\                            of polythene                                                         Waterstop
           75 mm blinding                   External waterstop
                               FLOOR                                                                  WALL & ROOF



Fig. 11.3 Typical joints for concrete reservoirs.
                                          11.6 Structural design of concrete reservoirs   507


lines between the column bases. Where possible, the upper floor slab should not be cast
until the reservoir, including the roof, is substantially completed. This helps to avoid
excessive shrinkage and temperature movements and (an important point) will assist in
preventing the joints from becoming damaged and fouled before the joint sealant is applied.
In a single-layer floor, the slab joints may be arranged in a manner similar to that described
above for the top layer of a two-layer floor. The blinding concrete beneath a single-layer
floor may be cast continuously, construction joints being provided as necessary.
   The roof is a reinforced concrete slab of uniform thickness, minimum 200 mm and is
monolithic with the column heads. Contraction joints are not needed (because the columns
are flexible enough to permit roof contraction), but expansion joints with waterstops must
be provided at intervals not exceeding 45 m. The roof design must allow for the impact
loading of constructional plant placing gravel and soil on the roof, and for any live loading
that may possibly occur.

(b) Monolithic concrete reservoirs
A monolithic concrete reservoir has reinforced concrete walls, floors, columns and roof, in
which there are few (if any) permanent movement joints. In some cases the walls and floor
are monolithic but there are sliding joints between roof and top of walls. This type of
design has been found to be structurally economical in most situations where the
underlying ground (after improvement if necessary) will support the load without risk of
appreciable differential settlement. The reservoirs are normally rectangular in plan, see
Fig. 11.4, but circular and other shapes are feasible.
   External walls are usually vertical or near vertical on the inner face but battered on the
outer face to give the tapered section appropriate to the form of loading (see Fig. 11.5).
Depending on the height of the walls and the length of the roof slab, monolithic
connections with floor and roof slabs can result in lower bending moments and shear
forces (especially in the vertical plane) than is the case with jointed structures. Within the
walls, joints are usually restricted to partial contraction joints (discontinuities in the
concrete with a proportion of the reinforcement passing through) and with a sealing
groove on the water face. The maximum spacing of partial contraction joints should be
7.5 m to avoid unacceptable cracking. For operational reasons, the division wall is usually
full-height and can therefore assist in supporting the roof. The columns are arranged on a
square grid, the span to external walls being typically reduced to three-quarters of the
normal spacing, and the roof should be a reinforced concrete slab of uniform thickness.
   An economical form of floor is a reinforced concrete slab of uniform thickness except at
the perimeter, where it should be thickened to cater for moments transferred from the
walls or resulting from differential vertical movements as between perimeter and centre
(see Fig. 11.5). Local thickening of the floor below columns should be avoided as it can be
awkward and costly to construct; instead additional reinforcement under the columns can
be used to increase the shear strength. Local thickening is usually required at drainage
channels and sumps where these are included. Joints are normally restricted to
construction joints but partial contraction joints can be used as described for walls.

(c) Other types of reservoir
Whilst service reservoirs of the types described above are by far the most common type
adopted, other types of construction are possible and have been used - mostly where
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lt~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        oo



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        r~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        e~



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        e~


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        e~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        r~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        e~


                            57.32      =F l ~            Secondary access             ---- Level~                                _]3 m
                            : ~ , , 5 6.88      :F        ~         ~ - - ~ - =~ =- - - Fall ~-----+ne~
                                                                                               chan     inv_~e~=
                                                                                                         - - --+             - + _ - -+ . . . .      +. . .Sampling
                                                                                                                                                           .  +. . . . point
                                                                                                                                                                        + - - - -j+ ~ - - - _ ~

                                                          _-1-      _-i-_ J _   -+     3-        --+__ __ __ 3 - . . . .     + . . . .   + . . . .   + . . . .   +. . . .   +. . . .   41- -       -   __-I


                                                                            ~Thickened                  oI.r                         400 dia. columns
                                                                                                                                                                                           i
                                                                                                                                                                                           '                           Main access
                                                                              floor base                c~.                      ~                                                                                     stairs
                                                +         +          +          +       +         + . . t +                  +           +           +           +          +                  9
                                             Taper
                                                                    CELL 1                                 ~
                                                                                                               /             Stainless steel sampling pipework 'I
                                                                                                                                                                                       /




                                             inlet jet                                                  LL
                                                                                                                                                      9                                                                Chlorination &
                                                +
                                                          +          +          +       +         +                +/-,-+        5m       +          +           +       +             -,                              sample points
                                                                                                                                         -,                          Sump &
                                             Drain                       Sampling point           i~               +    5~m                              u
                                                                                                                                              Inlet pipes            outlet pipe
                                                          +          +          +       +                               --               +encase-"     +     +
                                                                 Overflow                          ,                                                  Outlet          I
                                                                                                 '                 ~1                     in concrete sampling point.~
                                                19        /channel                   ~ - - Level, ---~                                              \                 '

                                                                                                                                                                                                   _T.)-_- ] t_....~

           // l                                                                                    r-..~


                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   1)--J-I"


       Drainage &                                                   CELL 2                         'I
       overflow
                                                          +          +          +       +         +                +         +           +           +           +          +          +
                                                                                                   I
       chamber                                                                                     I                                                                                                                      Washout




Fig 11.4   M o n o l i t h i c concrete r e s e r v o i r - plan.
                                                                                                          11.6 Structural design of concrete reservoirs                                  509


                                           200 topsoil on geotextile fabric          Overflow weir


                     ~
                                           100 gravel on heavy gauge polythene sheet~
                               ali 1:250 i                                              Fall 1:250
                               _%y.=,~_       _         --
                                                                                                                                                               _~_~r              l ~~
                                                                                                                                                                                 T
                          . .7--     ~    .-- - '       1-

                                    9 \.~ J                                                                 ~                         ~TWL~            I-

                                                         i
                                                                          Overfl~                               IC;III DI ---/                                  Mass concrete
                                                                                                                                                                screed with 25
                                                         i ~-                                     3600                        a~,e                            / granolithic topping
                                                         i
                     Cell 2                              i                                                                                                              Cell 1
                                                         i
                                                         i                                                                                                       0 0dia.column
                                                                                                                                                             j 4 circular
                                                                                                    Fall1:00 / Ii I:""""""l
                                                                                                                       ,                 /
                                                    i

                                                                                                                                                             ----Inlet pipes
                          Fall 1:250                     i                                                                                                    Fall 1:2501 ~350
                  -~.....:.....:;~:.~..~
                     I--g .....                                                                                                                              ":"~"~"'
                                                                                                                                                                ~ ~ :1'1~
                                                                                                                                                            450 reinforced concrete
SECTION AA                                                                                                           i Underdrain                           bored piles


                                                                                                                                     2500                     2500 ---'1
                                                             --i ~5o                                                             Fall 1:250
             iopsoli ~                                        .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .
                                                                                                                          4                      -i- - ~ ' ~ ' ~ . . . . .
                                                                                                                     \ /
                                                  I;- ; .                                                                 i                                                  I
                                                                                                                          I                                                  I
               Geotextile                      I" ::{:;';
                                               i                                                                          i                                                  I

                                               I                                                                          I
                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                             I       6450
              \ \ Inlet p'i p e                                                                                           I                                                  I
                                                                                                                     ,i              % 221/2~
                                                                                                                                                                             i
                \\                                                                                                        i                                                  I
                     \\
                           \                                  ...
                                                                                                                          I                  2001 1200                       I
                                \                                                                                         I                                                       350
                                                              T.,~"                                                                            -I IVaries~
               600 I \\                                      " 4'' ~'                                                     I                  ~L;J                            I.          ~L
                                                                              _" ....                                "".:~.          soo7                          t
            Perimeter drain/                                     "~-        "~~       ....
                                                                   75 blinding on building paper
SECTION BB                                                   600   100 gravel on geotextile fabric


Fig. 11.5   Monolithic concrete reservoir-                                                               sections,
510   Service reservoirs


special circumstances apply. Some early reservoirs may still remain, built of brickwork
with a rendered internal face and often had barrel vaulted roofs; but their construction was
discontinued in the early 1900s. Steel tanks are occasionally used for small reservoirs if
there is no amenity objection. The two main current alternatives to the traditional concrete
reservoir are the following.
   Pre-stressed concrete reservoirs offer the possibility of holding a greater depth of water
than normally reinforced concrete walled reservoirs, but they need to be circular in plan.
Hence they need a level (or levelled) site since they are not suitable for unbalanced earth
surcharge backing. They are not usually earth embanked and often have an uncovered
shell roof of concrete, so they are only possible where there is no amenity objection to their
visual appearance.
   Earth embanked reservoirs with columns and roof of reinforced concrete have been
used for the construction of large reservoirs where the ground is suitable. The floor and
inner face of the embankment have to be lined with asphaltic concrete or some other
impervious membrane. The care necessary in the design and construction to prevent
movement or settlement causing leaks at joints, and the different processes of construction
involved (earth compaction, concrete construction, and extensive membrane water-
proofing, etc.) means such reservoirs tend to be economic only in special circumstances.

Choice of type of reservoir
The practical choice of reservoir type will usually be between a jointed concrete reservoir
and a wholly or largely monolithic reservoir. To enable this choice to be made, the
differential movements likely to be experienced under all possible loading conditions must
be assessed; in the case of the monolithic design, the need for piling or soil stabilisation
may need to be considered. A jointed reservoir will be possible on any site where
foundation movements will not cause movements in the structure which are too great to be
accommodated by the joints. A monolithic reservoir requires any variations in the
underlying ground to be within the limits that the monolith can withstand without
cracking. However, bearing piles or ground stabilisation may sometimes be used to
improve the foundation if the ground is weak or variable. The absence of movement joints
eliminates a potential source of leakage or contamination by ground water.


11.7 Design procedures
Current British practice is to follow the procedures set out in BS 80072 for the design of
liquid retaining structures by a method based on limit state philosophy in the same way as
that adopted for the design of reinforced concrete structures to BS 8110. 3 The procedure
involves the calculation of the maximum serviceability widths of cracks and the
determination of reinforcement needed to restrict them to limiting values depending on
the degree of exposure to which structural elements will be subjected. The Code requires
checks to be made for safety or 'collapse' for other limit states, including the ultimate limit
state, in order to ensure that the structure remains serviceable at working loads
throughout its expected life. The design, detailing and workmanship of joints are discussed
in some detail and the designer is left to choose, from a number of options, the best
method of detailing joints to control shrinkage and initial thermal contraction.
   The Code uses the term 'characteristic strength' for concrete and the same term is
applied to the yield stress of the steel reinforcement. The characteristic strength is defined
                                        11.8 Drainage and waterproofing requirements 511

as the value of the concrete strength or steel yield stress below which not more that 5% of
the test results may be expected to fall. A minimum cement content of 325 kg/m 3 is
specified for structural concrete with a maximum water/cement ratio of 0.55 which should
be reduced to 0.50 when pulverised fuel-ash cement replaces part or all of the ordinary
Portland cement. The resulting concrete is classed as grade C35A to designate a
requirement for a 28-day characteristic cube strength of 35 N/mm 2. The use of grade C20
concrete, containing a minimum of 220 kg/m 3 cement, is permitted for non-structural
components of structures and C10 concrete, containing a minimum of 150 kg/m 3, can be
used where there is no requirement other than to protect an exposed formation from the
effects of weather or to fill an excavation with a stable material. The Code recommends
that aggregates should normally be 20 mm maximum nominal size in reinforced members
and the cover to all reinforcing steel should be not less than 40 mm. In practice aggregates
should form a dense mix and inclusion of some 38 mm size stones can help to reduce
shrinkage.
   Since the difference in cost of high yield deformed bars over mild steel bars is small, and
as economies result from the use of the former material, all reinforcement except that used
for links and binders in beams and columns should be in high yield steel with a minimum
characteristic yield strength of 460 N/mm 2. The Code sets out allowable steel tensile
stresses for different design crack widths.
   Where service reservoirs are to be built overseas, any relevant local codes of practice
should be followed, and designs may have to take account of local constructional abilities
and the quality of materials available. Often this involves using lower permissible design
stresses for concrete whose quality control may not reach the standards possible in UK.
Also design practices may need to be modified to take account of local prices prevailing so
that an economic construction results.


11.8 Drainage and waterproofing requirements
Where the reservoir external wall is designed as a flee-standing cantilever or is of mass
concrete, the backfill against the wall should comprise a vertical drainage layer of gravel
about 300 mm, extending the full height of the wall and continuing down over the wall
heel to link with a drainage system. Where the wall is monolithic with the reservoir floor
and roof, the granular wedge m a y - depending on the design assumptions- be omitted,
but it will generally be advantageous to retain the vertical gravel layer to control the
ground water level and also to transmit water draining from the roof. The wall and roof
drainage systems must be kept separate from any underfloor drainage system, and it is an
advantage to arrange the wall drainage pipework so that it can show from which wall (or
pair of walls) there is a discharge into an observation chamber. This aids location of any
wall leak that has developed.
   The roof should prevent ingress of water and pollution by being covered with a
waterproof membrane. For new reservoirs an adhesive membrane such as Bituthene DW
is recommended, protected by heavy duty polyethylene sheet under the gravel drainage
layer. The roof gradient should be no flatter than 1:250 for drainage, and the floor slope
should be made parallel to it, so as to maintain constant wall and column heights. The
simplest way to achieve this is to provide the slope in one direction only. Where a vertical
drainage layer is provided behind the reservoir wall, the roof drainage can usually be
allowed to flow over the roof edge into it. Where there is no vertical drainage layer, and
512    Service reservoirs


stability of the embankment is essential for wall stability, a low peripheral kerb provided
along the lowest edge of the roof can act as a collector for piping the water away. Inside
the reservoir, the floor should have a shallow collecting channel leading to a drainage
sump to aid cleaning of the floor of the reservoir.
   The underfloor drainage system is usually laid to a herring bone or rectangular pattern,
normally comprising porous pipes surrounded in gravel in a trench below the floor. The
layout should make it possible to observe drainage or leakage flow from separate areas of
the floor. The porous pipes from each area are continued in ductile iron piping laid in
concrete below the wall and its embankment, to discharge individually to a collector
manhole, from which there is a free outfall pipe to some lower point. This provision aids
locating any floor leak. With jointed reservoir construction there must be no possibility of
the outfall being submerged. If, on the other hand, conditions are such that uplift below
the floor is unavoidable, then monolithic construction must be adopted to a special design,
with the weight of the reservoir when empty being made greater than any possible uplift
pressure.


11.9     Access provisions
Access to each reservoir compartment is needed for personnel, plant and materials.
Personnel access is required comparatively frequently and openings for that purpose
should be as small as practicable to minimise the weight of the cover. Access for plant and
materials is less frequently required, and the opening has to be larger. Kerbing has to be
provided around each opening to prevent surface water entering the reservoir. The covers
to all access openings must be robust although they do not normally need to be designed
to support heavy loadings. They must be secure to prevent unauthorised access, and must
not allow rainwater to enter the reservoir. Hinged covers are usually preferable; lift-off
covers introduce the risk that mud and debris might be accidentally carried into the
reservoir after adhering to the underside of the cover. However, it is essential for the cover
to have an effective system for holding it in the open position when the access is in use.
   For personnel entry into the reservoir the preferred arrangement is an inclined ladder
leading to a platform about 2.5 m below the roof and a stairway leading from the platform
to the floor. Where a stairway exceeds 3 m, an intermediate landing is required.
Reinforced concrete construction is recommended for platforms and stairways as this
needs less long-term maintenance. The platforms can either be supported on columns or,
in some cases, cantilevered from the walls. Alternatively the platforms and stairways can
be fabricated in galvanised steel or anodised aluminium alloy. The same material should
be used for the ladder. For reservoir compartments exceeding 2000 m 3 capacity, two
separate human accesses should be provided into each compartment, near opposite
corners to assist ventilation of the compartment when work is in progress and to provide
an escape route for use in an emergency.
   Access for plant and materials has to be unobstructed to allow items to be lowered
vertically to the compartment floor. Provision for human access as well is impracticable
without an unduly large roof opening. The clear opening needed for small plant and
materials for normal maintenance should be not less than 1.5 x 1.0 m to allow a
wheelbarrow to be lowered. Consideration should be given to the provision of removable
handrailing around such openings, or of sockets into which it could be fitted. For reservoir
compartments exceeding about 10 000 m 3, a second and larger access for plant and
                                                                       11.10 Pipework 513

materials should be considered, if there is a possibility that larger mechanical equipment
will be needed for cleaning or major repairs. If wheeled plant is to be used on a reservoir
roof or within a reservoir, a suitable access ramp onto the roof will be desirable. However,
it is important to ensure that appropriate arrangements are made to prevent unauthorised
vehicles reaching the roof or plant being used outside any specially strengthened areas of
the roof.


11.10 Pipework
Reservoir pipework will normally comprise, inlet main(s), outlet main(s), overflow pipe,
drawdown/scour pipes, reservoir bypass and drainage pipes, and may include a suction
main to a site pumping station. It is common practice to provide a small-diameter valved
pipe through the division wall of a two-compartment reservoir, so that a copious supply of
water is available for hosing down a compartment when taken out of service for cleaning.
An 80 mm diameter pipe is usually sufficient for this purpose, and accords with standard
fire hydrant sizes. Unless separate connecting pipes are used for flow in each direction, the
control valve on the connection must be operable from outside the reservoir. Flexible
joints should be incorporated between embedded or rigid pipes and external pipelines to
accommodate differential settlement.
   Inlet and outlet mains should bifurcate to serve each reservoir compartment equally.
The inlet main can discharge at TWL or near BWL. One of the disadvantages of the latter
is that, in the event of a burst on the incoming main, the reservoir contents will be lost
unless a suitable non-return valve is provided. On the other hand, if the incoming supply is
pumped, a high-level entry will forfeit the energy savings potentially available when the
reservoir is operating below TWL.

Inlet pipework
The inlet piping arrangement needs to achieve complete mixing of the inflow with the
stored water and ensure there will be a flow of water through all parts of the reservoir to
avoid build-up of stagnant water areas. This involves suitable siting of the inlet and outlet
pipes and, if necessary, the use of baffle walls. For the design of large reservoirs and where
there are water quality problems, it is becoming more common to use 3-D models to
optimise inlet and outlet arrangements and where baffle walls (if any) should be placed.
Options for encouraging circulation c o m p r i s e - placing the inlet and outlet at opposite
ends of the compartment (see Fig. 11.4); distributing the incoming flow as evenly as
possible along an end wall by the use of a long inlet weir; using a tapered diffuser pipe with
several openings, or delivering to a semi-circular terminal box with slotted outlets.

Outlet pipework
The most common (and simplest) outlet system uses only one draw-off point per
compartment, but this is likely to leave some potentially stagnant areas in one (or both)
corners at the outlet end of the compartment. To avoid this the outlet may draw water
from a number of points along an end wall if flow distribution is used as the sole means of
avoiding stagnation.
   If the inlet and outlet pipelines are to terminate at opposite sides of the reservoir
compartment, it may be appropriate to have separate inlet and outlet valve houses.
514 Service reservoirs

However, for economy and ease of operation, a single valve house containing controls for
both inlet and outlet is usually preferable. With this arrangement, one pipeline (usually the
inlet) is normally laid within the reservoir compartment to feed water to the far end of it.
This pipeline should be placed alongside the wall and encased in concrete to avoid 'dead'
spaces and to inhibit external corrosion of the pipes. If the reservoir is of the jointed
design, the internal pipework (and its surround) must have flexible joints corresponding
with the joints in the structure.
   The outlet main can be laid horizontally, either through the reservoir compartment wall,
or under the floor with a 90 ~ vertical bend. It is usual to provide an entry bellmouth, to
reduce hydraulic losses. If the outlet main serves, or has a connection to, a pump suction,
the outlet bellmouth must be sufficiently submerged at BWL to prevent the entrainment of
air into the main. For a bellmouth in the horizontal plane (i.e. vertical exit), a safe rule for
minimum submergence of the bellmouth lip is:
         S/D = 1.0 + 2.3F
where S = submergence below BWL; D = bellmouth diameter at lip; and F is the Froude
number Vo/(gD) ~ where Vo = the average flow velocity through the exit plane of the
bellmouth. With a bellmouth in the vertical plane (horizontal exit) the same equation may
be used, but S is measured from the bellmouth axis.
   For a gravity supply outlet main, the submergence requirement can usually be relaxed
depending on the acceptability of air entry into the pipeline, but should not be less than D.
The required submergence may create an uneconomic depth of 'dead' water unless the
reservoir outlet is lowered by means of a sump in the floor. The sump should be generously
sized to avoid undesirable hydraulic turbulence. The bottom of the sump will collect floor
deposits and should be not less than 300 mm below the bellmouth lip. Safety features for
maintenance personnel will need to be considered in the detailed design of a sump. The
outlet sump can also serve as the drain sump.
   Where a service reservoir has a common inlet/outlet main, circulation inside the
reservoir can be achieved by dividing the common main into inlet and outlet pipes before
these pipes bifurcate to each compartment. If a low-level entry design is used, both inlet
and outlet must be fitted with non-return valves. With the high-level type entry, a non-
return valve is required on the outlet pipes only.

Overflow and draindown pipework
Adequate overflow arrangements must be made in case of an inflow malfunction, such as
the failure of supply pumps to shut down when the reservoir water level reaches TWL. The
overflow capacity from each compartment must not be less than the maximum
uncontrolled inflow possible into that compartment. The usual provision of a vertical
pipe with bellmouth attached as an overflow has the defect of limited capacity, and a
horizontal weir is usually required. A convenient arrangement in a two-compartment
reservoir is a weir box in the central division wall with weir entries from each
compartment. The weir box often discharges to a pipe laid through the valve house,
which can also receive the washout pipework connections.
   The combined overflow/washout system should preferably discharge into an open
watercourse, which must be of adequate capacity. It may be necessary to consult with the
land drainage authority or sewerage agency concerned if drainage is to a sewer. A break
pit must be provided before final discharge to provide a means of monitoring chlorine
                                                  11.11 Use of baffle walls or curtains   515


levels after disinfection and applying any necessary treatment. Drainage pipes should be
connected to a drainage sump in each compartment and their size will be dependent on the
compartment storage volume, the drawdown time from full that is acceptable, and any
limitations applied to rate of discharge to a watercourse or sewer.
   Drawdown times of 8-12 hours for reservoir compartments under 2000 m 3, and between
24 hours and 3 days for larger compartments, may be considered appropriate.
   A reservoir bypass (between inlet and outlet pipes) is necessary in the case of a single-
compartment reservoir, or where the whole reservoir may need to be taken out of service.
It is normally possible to accommodate the valve on this within the valve house.




11.11 Use of baffle walls or curtains
Baffle walls or curtains aim to achieve plug flow through the reservoir and serve to direct
the flow of water through the compartment from inlet to outlet by a circuitous route. The
optimum arrangement of baffles will depend upon the shape of the compartment and the
most convenient positions for the inlet and outlet. For construction convenience, baffles
are normally installed between the columns supporting the reservoir roof.
   Solid baffle walls are normally made of reinforced concrete, brickwork or blockwork.
Lightweight, hollow blockwork should be avoided because the free chlorine normally
present in a reservoir air-space has been known to cause deterioration of some blocks of
this type. Plastic curtains are sometimes used. Where appropriate, openings must be
provided along the bottom of the baffle walls to allow all areas of the reservoir floor to
drain and to facilitate cleaning and maintenance activities. Openings should also be
provided at the top of the walls to assist with ventilation. Joints must be provided in the
walls at all points where they bridge movement joints in the floor or roof. Additional joints
may be needed to allow for thermal movements or for the flexing of the reservoir walls as
water levels rise and fall.
   Baffle curtains may be less robust but easier to install. Care must be exercised in the
selection of the material used, ensuring that it is suitable for long-term use inside a
reservoir and is unlikely to be torn. The recommended method for supporting the top edge
of the curtain is to build a dove-tail steel channel into the roof soffit for the subsequent
attachment of hangers. A similar arrangement can be used for connecting to the vertical
edges to walls and columns although, for columns, it may be easier to provide a system of
lashing or strapping around the column. The bottom edge must also be firmly anchored
and this is best done by fixing it to steel or GRP angles bolted to the floor. The use of pre-
cast concrete blocks which are not fixed to the floor is not a recommended method of
anchoring a curtain. The alignment of the curtains should be chosen so that they are not
subject to high velocity or turbulent flow such as may occur near an inlet weir or inlet pipe
discharge. A problem commonly arises near the inlet when a reservoir is filling- velocities
of flow may initially be high until the depth of water has built up. In such circumstances, it
is recommended that a dwarf concrete wall, bonded to the floor, is provided below the
curtain. This wall should be about 500 mm high and the bottom of the curtain should be
anchored to the top of the wall. Dwarf walls must contain drainage openings in the same
way as full-height walls.
516   Service reservoirs


11.12 Valves
Stop valves must be provided on inlet mains, outlet mains, scour pipes and the reservoir
bypass, but must not be provided on the overflow or any wall or underfloor drainage
systems. Stop valves may be either gate (sluice) valves or butterfly valves. Gate valves
become impracticable for normal reservoir use above about 600 mm diameter, when
resilient-seated butterfly valves should be provided. The valve size can be less than that of
the pipeline, though the saving in cost of the valve is at least partly offset by the need for
tapers and the increased space occupied by the pipework in a valve house. If a smaller size
of valve is selected, a check should be made that the maximum velocity through the valve
does not exceed that recommended by the valve manufacturer.
   Over-velocity valves, designed to close automatically when the water velocity in the
pipeline exceeds a predetermined rate, have fallen out of general favour because of their
high cost and infrequent use. They may still be appropriate in special circumstances, for
example where a large reservoir provides the major supply to a distribution area, or where
the loss of water from a failed outlet main would be severe because of high head. The
possible need for such valves should therefore be reviewed in reservoir planning.
   It is common practice to group the various valves in a valve chamber or valve house.
However, in some circumstances, it may not be practicable to do this and alternative
arrangements need to be made. In general, all butterfly valves and special control valves
should be installed within chambers so they are accessible for maintenance. Important gate
valves (such as the isolating valves on any pipes connecting into the reservoir) should also
be placed within chambers but others can be buried in fill.
   Special consideration needs to be given to the siting of isolating valves on pipes leading
into or out of the reservoir. It is essential that such valves are installed so that they are
connected directly to the reservoir structure without any possibility of differential
movement occurring. For example, a valve separated from the reservoir by a length of
pipework including flexible joints would not be acceptable because, if earth movements
occurred, the pipe joints could fail and there would then be no way of preventing the entire
contents of the reservoir being released. Thus, unless such valves are within a valve house
forming an integral part of the reservoir structure, they should be placed outside the
reservoir wall and its embankment but close to it, so that the connections to the pipe
components built into the wall are flanged joints. The same principles apply to outlet or
drain pipework built into the reservoir f l o o r - all joints between the pipe end and the valve
must be flanged and (except where exposed in chambers) surrounded in concrete.


Valve house requirements
It is often convenient for all reservoir control valves to be concentrated in one chamber or
valve house. For security of supply, the valve house should be as close as possible to the
reservoir and is usually part of the reservoir structure. Access to the valve house may be by
top entry - through the r o o f - or side entry through a wall. Top entry may result in the
whole of the interior of the house being classified as a 'confined space', with consequent
safety constraints on entry. These could give rise to unacceptable delays in gaining access
if, for example, it becomes necessary to isolate the reservoir in an emergency. Side-entry
valve houses are to be preferred from an operational viewpoint although they may give rise
to unacceptable visual impact in environmentally sensitive areas.
                                     11.14 Sampling and instrumentation requirements        517


   The pipework within the valve house must be arranged so that it is possible to install,
maintain or remove any valve without great difficulty. If a valve is too heavy to be
manhandled, it is important that there is clearance for a straight vertical lift out of the
building (if top entry is provided) or to a position where it can be transferred to a trolley or
road vehicle (if side entry is provided).
   In addition to pipework, valve houses are often used to accommodate sampling pumps
and pipework, level recording and indicating equipment, telemetry and site monitoring
equipment for flowmeters on inlet and outlet pipework, ventilation and dewatering
equipment. Provision must also be made for dealing with any water resulting from
spillages during maintenance work or leakage from pipework components. As a minimum,
this should comprise a sump into which the suction hose of a portable pump can be
inserted.


11.13 Reservoir ventilation
Ventilation of reservoir compartments is needed to maintain a fresh supply of air above
the water surface, for temperature control of that air and to admit or release air displaced
by varying water levels in the compartment. The cross-sectional area of ventilation ducts
or openings should be based on an air speed of 15 m/s. Allowance should be made for the
reduction in effective air passage area caused by insect screens. In many cases, traditional
mushroom-type roof ventilators have been found unsatisfactory in long-term service and
to be a potential source of pollution. 'Vented' access covers have sometimes been used for
small reservoirs but are also vulnerable to pollution. Alternatives include piped systems
above the reservoir roof, leading to one or more ventilation chambers or ventilation ducts.


11.14 Sampling and instrumentation requirements
Monitoring of water quality in service reservoirs and water towers is required in UK under
the Water Supply (Water Quality) Regulations 1989. 4 At sites with more than one service
reservoir, each reservoir should be sampled separately unless they are inter-connected
when the final outlet point should be sampled. Likewise where a reservoir is divided into
compartments, each compartment should be sampled as a separate reservoir unless the
compartments are inter-connected. The sampling arrangements at service reservoirs with
combined inlet/outlet mains should always ensure that the water sampled is from the body
of the reservoir or that leaving the reservoir. If there is no suitable location for a sample
tap at the reservoir site, then a tap should be provided on the outlet main at the nearest
possible point to the reservoir. Dip sampling is not recommended and should only be used
as an emergency measure.
   The following instruments and equipment are normally required.
(a) A stilling well, either within or external to the reservoir, in which the water level
    measuring equipment is installed. If the reservoir is divided into two compartments,
    an externally-mounted stilling well with valved connections to each compartment
    should be provided. The well and valving are normally sited in the valve house. In
    some cases it may be desirable to have separate stilling wells for each compartment.
(b) Equipment for displaying the level measurement in either digital or analogue form in
    the valve house or in a weatherproof and vandal-proof enclosure installed adjacent t~
    the stilling well.
518   Service reservoirs


(c) Level electrodes or float switches at TWL (high) and BWL (low) for normal on/off
    pump control and alarm purposes. Additional switches at intermediate levels may be
    required for some pump control schemes.
(d) Level electrodes or float switches at OWL (extra high) and just below BWL (extra
    low) for alarm purposes and emergency control of pumps feeding the reservoir.
(e) A display panel (wall- or floor-mounted as appropriate) for level and alarm
    indications, power supplies and the like. Provision should be made for interfacing with
    a telemetry outstation which, if required, may be mounted inside the panel.
(f) A telemetry link to the pumping station or control centre to transmit water levels, flow
    rates through the inlet and outlet pipes, valve positions, remote control of valves,
    power supply failure, telemetry failure and, when provided, an intruder alarm.
Short- and long-term monitoring of movements of the reservoir structure can be
accomplished by installing reference points at selected external locations on the structure,
e.g. walls, roof and embankments, and by employing surveying techniques. Datum points
will also usually need to be established well clear of the zone of influence of the reservoir.
If required, strains within the reservoir may also be monitored remotely by a suitable
instrumentation system.



11.15 Testing service reservoirs
Service reservoirs are usually required to be tested for watertightness before being put into
service. The test should be carried out before placing any backfill or banks against the
outside walls unless the wall design relies on the embankment to resist hydraulic forces.
The roof should be in place. In the case of reservoirs of the monolithic design, the second-
stage concrete at the roof/wall joint must also be completed. Each reservoir compartment
should be tested separately, with the other compartment empty.
   The compartment to be tested should be filled, to a test level about 75 mm below the
overflow sill, with treated water at a uniform rate not exceeding 2 m vertical rise in water
level per 24 hours. It should then be left to stand for at least 7 days to allow for absorption
into the concrete. Longer periods (up to 21 days) may be required by some specifications.
The water level should then be measured and recorded using a hook gauge with vernier
control, or by other approved means of no less accuracy, and the water allowed to stand
under test for 7 days. At least once each day during this period, the water level should be
measured and recorded. During the 7-day test period, the effects of evaporation from the
water surface can be reduced by closing all air vents and access openings (except for one
vent left open for pressure balance).
   Any flows in the underdrain and wall drain systems should be measured and recorded
throughout the test, from a time at least 24 hours before beginning to fill, until 24 hours
after emptying or on completion of a final water level measurement. Taking such
measurements in chambers on the drain systems normally require safety precautions
appropriate to confined spaces. The outfalls of all pipes connected to the reservoir should
be inspected during the test to ensure that all isolating valves are shut tight. Any
significant leakage through them should be measured. In some circumstances it may also
be necessary to keep records of evaporation losses from the water surface.
   The test may be deemed successful if the drop of water level over the 7-day test period
does not exceed the lesser of 1/500  average water depth or 10 mm, after deducting any
                                                               11.16 Searching for leaks 519

measured leakage through valves and making allowance for any evaporation or
condensation.
   If the test fails, any increase in underdrain or wall drain flow during the test period
should be investigated to identify, if possible, the part of the reservoir that leaked. The test
compartment should then be emptied and closely inspected for faults likely to cause the
leakage.
   Investigating reservoir leakage can be troublesome and time consuming. The interior of
the reservoir - especially any joints - should be closely inspected before filling with water,
and care is needed in setting up and using the flow measurement devices.



11.16 Searching for leaks
It is not easy to make a large reservoir fully watertight and the following notes as to what
steps might be taken to track down the point of leakage may be found helpful.
(1) Flows from underdrains should be examined. These drains should preferably have
    been so designed that they can give some idea as to the location of the leakage; they
    should not all join to one common outlet point before being measurable.
(2) The inlet and outlet valves must be tested to ensure that they are not passing water
    into or out of the reservoir. The only secure way of knowing this is to have short
    removable sections of the mains on the outer side of the valves so that sections can be
    removed and the outflow, if any, through the valve can be observed and measured. If
    testing can be done before making all the pipe connections this will avoid the need for
    removable sections in them. Valves ought not to leak but many do, not necessarily
    through faulty design but most commonly because the gate is not shut properly
    because of dirt in the gate groove.
(3) The rate of leakage at full depth, half depth, and with about 0.6 m of water in the
    reservoir should be measured so that some idea is obtained as to the possible height of
    the leakage point within the reservoir. It is not likely that any revealing mathematical
    relationship between rate of leakage and depth of water in the reservoir will be
    established because any 'crack' through which water is leaking may be vertical or
    horizontal, long or short, and there may be several such cracks. It is usual to find that
    leakage is less when the depth of water is less, but occasionally one may find that there
    is no leakage at all below a certain level and this is a useful piece of knowledge.
(4) If the leakage is not traced by the above methods then the reservoir must be emptied
    and subjected to the most careful internal inspection. Emphasis must be placed on
    careful inspection. Good lights, adequate ladders, plenty of time, and a consistent
    pattern of examination should be adopted. It is extremely easy to miss a faint crack in
    the wall or floor. Walls (particularly the joints next to the corners) should receive
    special attention for it is here that there is most likelihood of movement having
    occurred. After emptying a reservoir the walls should be kept under observation when
    drying off because there is a certain stage of drying when leakage is evidenced by a
    dark patch on the surface of the concrete, even though this is the waterface. This patch
    will be short lived, but it may give a clue as to the whereabouts of a poor area of
    concrete through which leakage is taking place.
(5) The floor joints should be inspected. Jointing material should be examined to see if it
    has sunk, has holes in it, or has come away from or failed to bond to the concrete of
520   Service reservoirs


    the sealing grooves. The majority of leakages arise from defects of this kind. Wall
    joints should similarly be examined.
(6) If failure still results, about 0.6 m of water should be put into the reservoir and be left
    to stand until the water is quite still. Then crystals of potassium permanganate may be
    dropped into the reservoir, widely spaced, and left for a considerable time. Then,
    descending into the reservoir with a good light and walking over a pre-arranged
    walkway so as not to disturb the water, streaks of colour may be noticed from the
    permanganate crystals showing some definite flow towards a point of leakage.
(7) As an alternative to method (6), about 150 mm of water can be put into the reservoir,
    a hole or several holes bored through the floor, and compressed air can be introduced
    under the floor. In certain conditions of floor foundation air bubbling upwards
    through the water may indicate where faulty floor joints occur.
(8) If, despite all these attempts, the cause of leakage is still unaccounted for then more
    drastic measures may have to be undertaken, such as digging pits in the bank to
    inspect the rear of the wall joints, placing further sealing strips (such as glass fibre
    embedded in bitumen) over joints, or even rendering wall face areas. Sealing of
    leakage through a reservoir floor has been achieved by gravity grouting. About
    450 mm of thin grout mix is put into the reservoir and the cement is kept in suspension
    by continually sweeping the floor and disturbing the water with squeegees for two
     successive days. Thus grout passes into the unknown paths of leakage and the cement
     sets. It should not be necessary, however, to adopt these measures unless poor
    construction has taken place. Where ordinary care has been taken with construction,
     failure to find the cause of leakage should be taken as an indication that the interior
    inspection has not been carried out carefully enough and this should be repeated. In
     the long run most troublesome leaks are discovered to be in some rather obvious place
    which has not been thoroughly examined in a first or even a second examination.


11.17 W a t e r towers
Water towers are necessary in areas of flat topography in order to provide sufficient
pressure for delivery into the distribution system. A typical design for a reinforced
concrete reservoir on a cylindrical shaft and a raft base is shown in Fig. 11.6. Many shapes
and design features are possible; generally the designer will aim to produce a structure that
is aesthetically acceptable to the water undertaker and the planning authorities, bearing in
mind that it will become a landmark in the community which it serves. Ancillary
equipment including pipework, ladders, instrumentation and booster pumps, if required,
can all be hidden in the cylindrical shaft. Examples are illustrated in Plate 26.
   Supplies to water towers are likely to involve pumping and energy consumption. The
optimum depth/diameter ratios should be determined for each location having regard to
any benefits available from use of power at off-peak charges and a need to avoid large
pressure fluctuations in distribution that may be caused by drawdown or filling in
excessively deep tanks. Typical dimensions adopted for the design shown in Fig. 11.6 are:

                Size (m3)       Depth of water (m)         Internal diameter (m)
                1200             7.5                       17.0
                2000             9.1                       19.4
                3000            10.2                       22.6
                                                                                              References   521

                                       Overflowweir       Lightningarrester
                                                           /
                               200rn                      /                Roofto be painted white
                                ,.


               E
              e,i

               E
              ,v--




                     . . . .


              E

              e5
                                                              __ ~ ~ , ,         Accessshaft 2.1 rn dia
           0.5m
              ._~

               r                              ii          ~Outlet
              ._m
               (1)
              "3-                             i       .                    Overflow/drain




Fig. 11.6 Typical layout for RC water tower.


11.18 Steel and other reservoirs
Welded steel ground level or elevated tanks are often provided as storage reservoirs in
capacities up to 9000 m 3, particularly on pumped pressurised systems. Elevated storage
tanks with conical or ellipsoidal bottoms can be manufactured in a variety of shapes and
sizes for support on tubular columns or towers. Service reservoirs fabricated from modules
of bolted pressed steel plates, e.g. Braithwaite tanks, are rarely constructed nowadays due
to the high cost of protecting the metalwork against corrosion and their limited service
lives. The corrosion problem can be overcome by spraying a special borosilicate glass onto
a pre-coated steel plate which is then fired causing the glass slurry to fuse with the steel and
produce a hard impervious finish. Service reservoirs are then formed by bolting together
curved modular units to form cylindrical structures which can be mounted on steel or
concrete floors at ground level or onto a concrete frame structure. Diameters of up to
17 rn have been constructed without columns for supports of roof panels. Reservoirs have
been constructed of rigid plastic panels bolted together but they have not proved
satisfactory in hot climates because repeated flexing of plates has led to ultimate cracking
of them near their fastenings.


References
  1. The UK Reservoirs Act 1975 and associated Regulations dated 1985 and 1986.
  2. BS 8007: Code of Practice for Design of Structures for Retaining Aqueous Liquids.
  3. BS 8110: Structural Use of Concrete Part 1 - C o d e of Practice for Design and
     Construction
  4. The UK Water Supply (Water Quality) Regulations 1989.
                                          12
  Pu m ping pla nt: electrical,
 control and instrumentation
           systems

12.1 Pumping plant
Using machines to lift water is a very ancient art, developed to satisfy the most basic of
human needs, water for domestic use and water for irrigation to grow crops for food.
Fortunately for the present-day pump engineer, designs of pumping machinery have
progressed a long way from the hand, foot, or animal-driven shadufs and water-wheel
pumps of ancient Egypt, India, and China. Most modern pump designs however still bear
a strong resemblance to their predecessors of 100 years or so ago, although incorporating
many improvements. Examples are better materials of construction, improved bearings,
added protective coatings, better designed hydraulic passages and better methods of drive
and control. All these have contributed to improvements in reliability and performance.
   The laws of physics dictate the minimum power requirement for lifting a given mass of
water through a given distance in a given time. The challenge of doing this seemingly-
simple task reliably and efficiently, that is with the minimum consumption of energy, is
one which has exercised the ingenuity of the pump engineer ever since the need for
minimising power consumption to save cost was first appreciated. This need is almost
always of great importance in water supply, since most water supply installations operate
for long continuous periods and pumping costs generally dominate the running costs of
water supply systems.


12.2    Centrifugal pumps
Pumps which operate by rotary action are called rotodynamic pumps and the centrifugal
pump is the first type to be considered. Although other types of pump still have their uses,
the centrifugal pump is the most commonly used because of the wide range of duties which
it can cover and its comparatively high efficiency and low cost. Centrifugal pumps are
available in a great variety of arrangements, as single or multistage units, and arranged
vertically or horizontally to suit particular needs. The principal part of a centrifugal pump
is the impeller, which is rotated at high speed. The impeller usually consists of two discs
with a number of spiral blades between them. A pump with five impellers is shown in Plate
27. The impeller is manufactured as a single casting, and different materials are used in
different applications. For use with fresh water, bronze is a satisfactory material for
                                                        12.3 Types of centrifugal pump 523

meeting the most important criteria. These include resistance to corrosion, abrasion, and
cavitation damage, combined with ease of casting, good machining properties, and
moderate cost. One of the discs is fixed to the shaft of the pump, and the other has a
central hole in it making an annular space around the s h a f t - the 'eye' of the impeller.
When the impeller rotates, water is drawn into it through the eye, passes through the
impeller, and is flung radially off the tips of the vanes, which adds high kinetic energy. In
the diffuser chamber around the impeller, part of the energy is converted to pressure
energy, part to forward movement of the water through the connected system, and part is
lost in turbulence and friction. The efficient conversion to useful energy - pressure rise and
forward movement of the w a t e r - is accomplished by careful design of the impeller and
diffuser chamber.
   With good design the maximum efficiency of the pump can be around 80%, including
all the energy lost in bearing friction as well as the hydraulic losses within the pump.
Efficiency depends upon several factors including the size of the pump, with larger sizes
generally more efficient than small, and the efficiency of a centrifugal pump is bound to
vary at different flow rates. Maximum efficiencies of more than 90% are possible with
special designs and large machines, but these may be obtained, amongst other things, by
fine clearances between the moving and static parts of the pump so that efficiency may fall
sharply with wear. In practice, all centrifugal pump efficiencies are likely to fall with time.
The operating efficiency is a useful criterion in judging whether the time has come for a
pump to be refurbished or replaced, since the efficiency inversely affects the running cost
by influencing the power consumption for a given delivery.


12.3 Types of centrifugal pump
While all centrifugal pumps work on the principle set out above, their construction varies
greatly according to the duty required from the pump. Multistage pumps consist of several
impellers and diffuser chambers arranged in series, the impellers being fixed to one shaft.
The water from the first diffuser chamber is led to the second impeller, from the second
diffuser to the third impeller, and so on. The pressure developed by the pump increases
stage by stage. For general waterworks duties the maximum pressure normally developed
by one impeller may be between 80 and 100 m head. Higher heads can be produced by
higher speeds of rotation and larger impellers, although these measures increase the cost.
   A 'split casing' centrifugal pump is shown in Plate 27. The great advantage of this design
is that the upper half of the casing is easy to remove, giving access to the impellers and
diffuser chambers for inspection and any needed maintenance without the need to
disconnect the pipework or the driver. An advantage of the multistage pump is that it is
possible to have a 'dummy stage' for one or more of the stages. This is simply a diffuser
chamber without an impeller, allowing for the addition of impellers if the pump is later
required to develop more pressure. The efficiency of a pump is not much altered by the
dummy stage, and its introduction at the time of installation when future increases in head
are expected can prolong the useful life of a pump. The driving motor must of course have
enough power to drive the pump when the impeller is added.
   One of the problems in designing a centrifugal pump is accommodating the resulting
end thrust. The pressure of the water at the inlet side of the impeller is low relative to that
at the back, which is almost equal in surface area, so that axial thrust results. Several
means are adopted for balancing this thrust, which would otherwise quickly cause wear on
524   Pumping plant: electrical, control and instrumentation systems

the pump and shorten its life. Small pumps can absorb the end thrust by the use of
purpose-designed thrust bearings. For larger pumps a double-entry, back-to-back impeller
design may be used, with the water entering the impeller from both sides. By this means
the end thrusts can be effectively balanced. A multistage pump does not normally have
double entry arranged for each impeller, although special designs have been successful for
very high duties in which there is more than one double-entry impeller on the same shaft,
with sometimes a balanced arrangement of single-entry impellers as well. Another
common device for overcoming end thrust on smaller multistage centrifugal pumps is to
incorporate a balancing disc on the shaft, high pressure water being led to one side of it so
that most of the end thrust is taken by the disc.
   The vertical spindle pump is frequently used for pumping water from a well, and for
river intakes. The driving motor, Fig. 12.1(a), is at the surface, mounted above flooding
level, but the pump, Fig. 12.1(b), is immersed in the water. The spindle rotates within a
tube or sleeve, perhaps 75-125 mm diameter, and is held centrally in the rising main by
'spider' bearings. The pumped water is delivered to the surface via the annular space
between the sleeving and the rising main. A typical arrangement would be a 250 mm
diameter rising main in 3 m lengths bolted together with flanged joints, the sleeve tube
being 100-125 mm diameter, with bearings for the spindle at every joint in the rising main.
These bearings are nearly always water lubricated (oil or grease lubrication risks
contamination of the pumped flow) the water being fed through the sleeving after being
taken off the pumping main and filtered before being supplied to the bearings. The whole
weight of the spindle and the pump impellers, and the hydraulic thrust generated, is taken
by a Michell thrust bearing at the top of the shafting, just below the coupling to the motor.
Vertical spindle machines of this type are very reliable, being robust and suitable for
continuous heavy duty running. However they are expensive, and take time and skill to
dismantle or erect when repairs are necessary. Their capital cost may be double that for a
horizontal spindle pump, and they are now less common with the increased use of cheaper
 submersible pumps.

Submersible pumps
Submersible pumps should strictly be termed 'submersible-motor' pumps or 'submersible
pumpsets'. The motor design (see Plate 28) is the main difference from more conventional
designs. The pump, driven by a submersible motor, will be very similar to a pump driven
by a vertical spindle 'dry' motor as described above, although some differences are given
below. Submersible pumps gained in popularity because they usually result in a cheaper
installation than one using dry motors. The disadvantages of having a submerged m o t o r -
out of the sight and hearing of any attendant, and certainly less reliable than a dry motor
when the submersible machine was first introduced - have been largely overcome by
improvements in the motor design, particularly in the insulation. Properly selected,
modern submersible pumps have now been proved reliable in service over many years, and
submersible designs are available from specialist manufacturers for a very wide range of
duties.
   Many submersible pumps in water supply are installed in boreholes. Since modern
boreholes are invariably drilled, and no longer hand-dug wells as in the past, and since the
high cost of drilling is affected by the borehole diameter, the diameter of the submersible
pump has become of great importance. Designers have therefore concentrated on
producing pumps and motors of small diameter, so that where high pumping heads are
                                            12.3 Types of centrifugal pump 525




Fig. 12.1 Vertical spindle borehole pump.
526   Pumping plant." electrical, control and instrumentation systems

needed many pump stages are required. This results in pumps which are longer and
narrower than more conventional designs. For the same reasons, the submersible motors
are longer than equivalent dry motors in order to develop the needed driving powers with
a limited diameter available, and they are nearly always two-pole designs enabling them to
run at the highest available speed. By this means, more power can be developed from a
given size motor, which reduces the overall cost. Similarly the output of any given pump
will be increased by running it at the two-pole speed in comparison with its performance at
lower speeds. Naturally the mechanical design of the pump, especially its bearings, must be
appropriate for the chosen speed. The disadvantage of having the higher speed pumpset
may sometimes be important, particularly if there is any likelihood of abrasive particles
suspended in the pumped water. Faster running pumps will also have reduced suction
capability, so that deeper submergence may be required. Each installation needs careful
consideration before the type and speed of the pumps is finally decided.
   In a typical borehole installation, the pump is directly coupled to the submersible motor,
which is underneath, and power is supplied to the motor through waterproof cables clipped
to the outside of the rising main. The water inlet is in the centre between pump and motor
with the outlet from the final pump stage leaving axially, vertically upwards. The motor is
normally a fixed-speed caged induction motor, specially designed for underwater running.
To ensure the motor is properly cooled by water passing over its surface, if there is any risk
that inflow to the borehole could be predominantly from a higher level than the pump inlet,
or if the pump is installed in a large body of water so that the pumped flow does not pass
over the motor, a motor shroud should be used. This device is a simple canister, an annular
shroud open at the bottom, which fits over the motor and is secured to the pump just above
the inlet, thus ensuring that the pump inlet flow passes over the motor.
   Submersible pumps are relatively quick and easy to install. The rising main is free of the
spindle and sleeving needed with the vertical spindle pump, and a large thrust bearing to
support the heavy rotating parts is not required. Submersible pumps need not be installed
truly vertically, which may be a big advantage in very deep wells. They are sometimes used
horizontally as booster pumps in distribution mains. Submersible-pump reliability in non-
corrosive waters has been proven over the years, and even in corrosive waters when they
may need attention they can be withdrawn and replaced more easily than pumps of the
vertical spindle design. Some modern borehole installations are now designed without any
 surface housings, although provision still needs to be made for access for a mobile crane or
 sheerlegs for installation and withdrawal of the pumpset and its rising main. This
 simplification can make substantial cost savings.
    Submersible pumpsets may be less efficient than the vertical spindle design, partly
 because of the special design of the motor but also because of the higher number of stages
 needed to achieve a given duty, as described above. This can be specially significant if the
 pumping duty is wrongly estimated, because of the pronounced peak in the efficiency
 curve with the multistage unit. However submersibles do gain by avoiding the trans-
 mission shaft losses of the vertical spindle design.


12.4     Characteristics of centrifugal pumps
The characteristics curves for a typical true radial flow centrifugal pump are shown in
Fig. 12.2. The head-flow curve is relatively flat up to the design duty point and the power
at zero flow is only about 40% of that required at the design duty. This illustrates two
                                                                                        12.4 Characteristics of centrifugal pumps 527

                               120
                                                                   Head
                                     ._   .....   ~,_   - -          ~   --.    i---.       ~   .,~           i
                       A

                        ~100
                        L




                           o   80                                                                      Design
                                                              ,~,,u/..~ v.;-                          duty point
                        n




                                                  .$1
                        c

                        >. 6 0
                        U
                        C
                        ._.
                        '-" 4 0
                                                                                                                           \
                                                                                                                               \

                               20
                                     /
                                                                                   ,    ,
                        |
                       "r


                                 0                 2o           40             60         80    100                120   140       160    .,
                                                                                       Output (%)                                        . "

Fig. 12.2 Characteristic curves for a radial flow centrifugal pump at constant speed. Note that the
head developed shows unstable characteristics up to about 90% output and a continuously falling
head curve would be preferable and in some instances necessary (see main text).


useful characteristics of the centrifugal pump: it can be started against a closed valve, and
the power required to start it is much less than the power required at the duty point. It is
common to start a centrifugal pump against a closed delivery valve, and to close the valve
before the pump is shut down. The pump is unaffected provided that the valve is opened
(or the pump Stopped when shutting down) before the pump becomes overheated. The
reduced power required for start-up is also beneficial in reducing the starting current when
an electric motor is used as the prime mover, and the pressure rise in the delivery system on
starting the pump can be controlled by controlling the rate of opening of the valve.
   The maximum head generated by the pump, for a given speed, is not greatly in excess of
the design head. However in the particular instance shown, this head-output curve is
unsatisfactory since for heads higher than the duty head there are two possible outputs.
The pump is therefore unstable which could cause trouble if operated in parallel with
another pump. For preference, the head-output curve should fall continuously with
increasing output, and the pump is then stable. If the curve is steep, which is often
specified for water supply pumps, the pump output will not vary much if the head alters
somewhat during operation. The maximum head at zero f l o w - the 'closed valve' h e a d -
should not be excessive. The efficiency curve should be reasonably flat about the design
duty point so that there is no great reduction in efficiency if the actual head is slightly
different from the duty expected.
   When the rotational speed (N) of a centrifugal pump is changed, there is little change in
efficiency but the output (Q), head developed (H), and power required (P) are altered
according to the following relationships, known as the 'affinity laws':

         Q1/Q2- N1/N2
         H1/H2- (N1)Z/(N2) 2
          P1/P2- (N1)3/(N2)3

The theoretical effect of changing the speed of the pump is illustrated in Fig. 12.3.
528   Pumping plant." electrical, control and instrumentation systems


                         140 -                             Output Q         Output H

                         130 -                                                   Power P

                         120 -
                     -{3 110       10% over speed
                                                   --I-- I
                               _    Normalduty          I I
                     ~   100                    ~~] I I I
                                                      I j ~           33% more power
                          90
                               -          ,/~                         21~ more head
                          80                                                      put

                          70

                          60
                                        50%         100%       150%       200%
                                      % Normal output" Head:Power


Fig. 12.3 Effect of changing the speed of a centrifugal pump.


  Air in a pump can reduce its efficiency substantially and may also induce severe
corrosion from cavitation (see Section 12.20). Air within a pump is evidenced by a hard
crackling noise heard from the pump, almost as if the pump had some gravel inside it. If
such a sound does not disappear shortly after starting, the cause should be investigated
and eradicated.
   Each pump has a minimum 'net positive suction head requirement', sometimes
abbreviated to NPSHR, which is the head that causes water to flow into the eye of the
impeller and is the minimum suction conditions required to prevent cavitation. Its value
varies with the speed and capacity of the pump and will normally be given by the
manufacturer, based on the results of tests. This must not be confused with NPSHA, i.e.
the NPSH available, provided by the system in which the pump is installed, which is given
by:

                           (Pa + Pw)
         NPSHA -- Z +                      -h i-     V2s/2g

where Z is the difference between the pump impeller eye level and the suction water levels,
Pa is the absolute atmospheric pressure, Pvp is the absolute vapour pressure of the liquid at
the pumping temperature, 7 is the specific weight of liquid at pumping temperature, hi is
the head lost in friction in the suction pipework and Vs2/2g is the suction velocity head.
(Although water supply pumps normally pump cold water at modest altitudes, terms are
included in the above expression for NPSHA which take account of both atmospheric
pressure and water temperature.) The value of NPSHA must always be greater than
NPSHR, and a safety margin of perhaps 1 m is often specified. This allows for any minor
differences between calculated and actual figures as well as changes with time.


Specific speed
To classify geometrically similar pumps, the numerical quantity 'specific speed' has been
adopted. Specific speed is the speed required for delivery of unit flow against unit head; it
                                                             12.6 Reciprocating pumps   529


will vary in accordance with the system of units used.
             NQ1/2
        Ns = 93/4

where Ns is specific speed; N is pump impeller speed in rpm; Q is output at maximum
efficiency (m3/s); H is delivery head at maximum efficiency (m). Specific speeds (in metric
units) fall approximately into the following categories:

                       Type of pump                    Specific speed
                       Radial flow                        10-90
                       Mixed flow                         40-160
                       Axial flow                        150--420



12.5    Axial flow and mixed flow pumps
Axial flow pumps are of the propeller type, in which the rotation of the impeller forces the
water forward axially, and therefore they strictly do not qualify as centrifugal pumps.
Mixed flow pumps act partly by centrifugal action and partly by propeller action, the
blades of the impeller being given some degree of 'twist'. However in practical terms there
are no precise dividing lines between radial flow (centrifugal), mixed flow, and axial flow
pumps. In general, axial and mixed flow pumps are primarily suited for pumping large
quantities of water against low heads, whilst centrifugal pumps are best for pumping
moderate outputs against high heads. Axial flow pumps have poor suction capability and
must be submerged for starting. They are most often used for land drainage or irrigation,
or for transferring large quantities of water from a river to some nearby ground-level
storage. A mixed flow pump is shown in Plate 28.
   Characteristic curves for typical mixed flow and axial flow pumps are given in Fig. 12.4.
The starting power required by the mixed flow pump shown is about the same as the duty
power, but for the axial flow pump the starting power is substantially in excess of the duty
power. Axial flow pumps are therefore not started against a closed valve, which would
overload a motor correctly sized for the expected duty. They are either started against an
open valve to minimise the starting power and current required, or may be installed in
systems specially designed to ensure no delivery valve is needed.
   Even the smallest of pumps may be mixed flow rather than truly centrifugal. The
borehole pump shown in Fig. 12.1 is really a mixed flow multistage pump. The designer
has. had to design a pump which is restricted in diameter so that the pump can be inserted
in small boreholes. The quantity required has forced him to adopt a mixed flow impeller
design, and because one impeller does not develop enough head, several similar impellers
in series are needed.


12.6    Reciprocating pumps
Most pumps used for water supply nowadays use a rotating impeller, but the reciprocating
pump still has its uses. The ram pump is the most common form of reciprocating pump,
and it consists of a piston reciprocating within a cylinder provided with water inlet and
outlet valves. Water is drawn in by one stroke of the pump and forced out by the next.
530   Pumping plant." electrical, control and instrumentation systems

                             200                                                                      -                           100
                                                                                     [ ^r
                                                                                                          ',                 ,
                              160                                                                         '            . .\       80
                       Q.)
                       r-
                       "10

                       t_     120                           . .                              ea~r .                               60    .~
                                                        F                     KW power                                                  '~
                       0
                       e~
                       ~       60                       /              !i    .....           ' Design '                           40
                       r"                               /                                    duW point                ~
                                               //"                                                                                      e~


                      ,,       40                                                                                                 20

                                       /
                                           /                                                              !
                                                                                                          i


                                                                       [
                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                          i
                                                                                                           i
                                                                                                           i

                                                                       1                                                          o
                                   0                 2O                40        60      80      100                 120         140
                       (a)                                                   Percentage quantity



                           180


                 .-          160,              \
                 v

                 c 140              ,~               ~~0~,~
                 ~C 120


                  0~         100
                                                                            zz
                                                                   J                     De
                 ~            60                                                        duty point
                                                                                                i
                                    J                                                            I

                  ~ 60                                                                           0,
                                                                                                 I


                                                                                                 I

                                                                                                 1
                              40
                                                                                                 1I
                              20                                                                 1
                                                   60             70         80         90     1 O0            110     120        130
                 (b)                                                        Relative quantity (%)


Fig. 12.4 Characteristic curves for (a) a mixed flow pump and (b) an axial flow pump.



With all ram pumps the output must fluctuate cyclically, but if three or more cylinders are
used, a reasonably constant flow is maintained. The type of pump with three cylinders, is
termed a 'triple throw ram pump', the pistons being connected to the operating crank 120 ~
apart. Ram pumps were common for high-head duties in water supply before the
widespread introduction of centrifugal pumps. Their slow speed suited the speed of the
reciprocating steam engines which usually drove them. Driven nowadays by an electric
motor, the triple-throw ram pump may sometimes be used where exceptionally high heads
must be produced, since no special design is necessary other than making the working
parts strong enough to sustain the head. Efficiencies of more than 90% can be obtained,
falling off with piston and cylinder wear. However since very high head centrifugal pump
                                                12.7 Choice of pumps for water supply      531


designs are now available, the use of new ram pumps for high-head duties in water supply
has almost completely ended.
   Small ram pumps, usually driven by variable-speed electric motors, are however still in
widespread use for the injection of the chemical solutions needed for dosing in water
treatment. Their property of delivering a constant volume of liquid per stroke makes them
well suited to the metering duty required. With appropriate design of the pump and its
driving system, both the pump speed and its stroke are varied, so that any desired rate of
chemical injection per unit volume of water to be treated can be maintained.
    The bucket pump is another form of the ram pump, arranged to operate vertically for
drawing water from a well or borehole. Instead of a piston a 'bucket' is given a vertical
reciprocating motion in the rising main. The bucket incorporates a valve, which opens as
the bucket descends below water level. When the bucket rises, the valve closes and water is
lifted. An alternative arrangement makes the descent of the bucket force water up the
rising main through a series of valves. This type of pump is known as a 'lift and force'
pump. The village pump is a single-throw bucket pump operated manually, and it
illustrates one of the chief advantages of the bucket pump apart from that of its low cost,
that it is always ready for use and able to function even if erratically operated. Modern
versions of these machines are still being installed for village water supplies in parts of the
world where an electro-submersible borehole installation would be too costly. Small
single-throw bucket pumps are also still used, for example to provide water supplies for
remote farmland, sometimes with modern wind turbines driving them, again illustrating
the reliability of these pumps under intermittent operating conditions.
    The hydrostat or hydraulic ram pump is another example of reciprocating pump still in
occasional use. A large volume of water flowing in one pipe or waterway is used to drive a
ram which is connected to a smaller ram pump, which pumps part of the water to a higher
elevation through a branch pipe. Of course it is not possible to raise the pressure of all of
the water, and the flow which continues down the main pipeline suffers a loss of head.
Hydraulic rams are not convenient in public water supply systems because any increase of
demand on either the high or low pressure side will quickly invalidate the set-up. However
they do find use in special situations, such as when a small volume of water is to be lifted in
a remote location without an accessible power supply.


12.7    Choice of pumps for water supply
The horizontal centrifugal pump is suitable for nearly all waterworks duties, except those
of handling very large volumes of water against low heads, and pumping from wells and
boreholes. The main advantages of the horizontal pump are that it is relatively low in first
cost, and it can readily be arranged to provide easy access for maintenance. A great variety
of designs are available to meet a range of pumping conditions, but the most common
arrangement is to use the horizontal, split-casing double-suction design, which has been
developed over many years of water supply duties. For a single unit the output can range
from 50 M1/day by 60 m head to 10 M1/day by 200 m head. The most common water-
works duty is from 10 to 25 M1/day per unit by 30 to 120 m head, and in this range the
horizontal pump is cheapest.
   The pump should have stable characteristics and should be 'non-overloading', i.e. the
power absorbed should not increase much if the delivery head drops. This is not always
possible to arrange, and protection against overload must be provided for the motor. A
532   Pumping plant: electrical, control and instrumentation systems

low head could result if the delivery main from the pump were to burst near to the
pumping station. The efficiency curve should also indicate no severe fall in efficiency for
moderate variations of flow and head about the duty point. When specifying a pump, the
manufacturer must be told of the complete range of duties the pump is intended to meet,
including whether series or parallel operation is required (see Section 12.15). To specify the
duty point only, i.e. the theoretical normal conditions under which the pump will operate,
could lead to large efficiency loss if the actual running conditions vary from the
theoretically calculated duty.
   For wells and boreholes the choice lies between vertical spindle pumps and submersible
pumps. The characteristics of these two types of pumps have already been given. The
vertical spindle pump may be regarded as a 'heavy duty' pump. It may be driven by a
synchronous electric motor which enables the power factor then to be brought to unity.
The consequent cost of power can so be reduced, although the motor is more expensive
initially and costs more to maintain. Large outputs are often handled by vertical spindle
pumps driven by synchronous electric motors. Variable speed is another advantage that
can be more easily obtained with the vertical spindle pump than with the submersible
pump, which requires a variable frequency supply to run it at variable speed. (However
recent developments with variable frequency drives are increasing their use.) Variation in
speed is often necessary when pumping from a well or borehole because the output from
the well may have to be kept in step with the demand, irrespective of seasonal fluctuation
in water levels in the well. A thorough appraisal of all the possible operating conditions
must be made before choosing the right pump for the duty.
   For pumping large quantities of water against low heads, the vertical spindle motor
driving a mixed-flow pump is also suitable, with the pump immersed in the water and the
motor sited above the highest flooding level. A vertical spindle pump is not always needed
for pumping water from a tank or main, because the cheaper horizontal centrifugal pump
can be sited in a dry well, with its centreline below the bottom water level in the tank so
that the pump is always primed. Centrifugal pumps should preferably not be sited so that
they are subject to any suction lift, because their efficiency drops and cavitation may be
experienced. But if essential and depending upon the design, up to 4 rn lift can be
managed, with 5.5 m the maximum possible.
   For high lift pumping the most common choice is the fixed-speed, horizontal multistage
centrifugal pump. Submersible pumps are also used for this duty, either for pumping direct
from a well to a high-level tank, or for inserting as boosters in a pipeline in a pit below
ground level. This is advantageous when it would otherwise be impossible or expensive to
erect a building to house the normal arrangement of horizontal pump and motor.
   In water supply pumping stations, a single pump is seldom relied upon for the full
output. Adequate standby is essential to ensure continuity of supply. If the full duty can be
handled by a single pump then a duplicate of equal capacity should be installed and this is
a common arrangement when the unit sizes are small. However if pumps each sized for
 50% total required output are chosen, the installation of three similar pumps ensures
 100% output on the breakdown of any one machine, and 50% in the much more unlikely
event of two pumps failing at the same time. The cost of the standby plant is then less than
when two pumps of 100% capacity are installed. When pumps of different sizes are
needed, for example when pumping into a system with limited storage or when large
fluctuations in demand must be satisfied, the normal requirement is to ensure the
availability on standby of at least one pump of each size.
                                                                     12.8 Prime movers     533


12.8     Prime movers
Pumping machinery may be driven by almost any prime mover of suitable power and
speed. Most water supply pumps are nowadays driven by electric motors, but some still
exist that are directly driven by a diesel engine. The widespread availability of more
reliable and economically priced electricity supplies, and the comparative cheapness,
choice of design and sizing, ease of operation and control of electric motors make them
clear favourites in most circumstances. Two disadvantages of motor drives nevertheless
need mentioning. Firstly, the electricity supply must be secure to ensure the constant
availability of pumping, which is nearly always important in water supply systems.
Secondly, the cheaper motor designs are inflexible since they are normally able to run only
at a fixed speed.
   Security of electrical supplies. Although in many places the reliability of electrical power
supplies has greatly improved, so that often no consideration need be given to outages of
any long duration, there are still installations where power failure must be taken into
account. A typical example is where severe weather can affect transmission lines to remote
pumping stations. Some form of standby generating plant will then be needed. Except for
very large unit sizes such as 5 mW and greater, for which gas-turbine generators are
usually used, the choice nowadays is almost always to use diesel-driven generators. Where
a single large water sourceworks provides a major part of the water supply, there may be
no escaping the costly provision of a fixed, dedicated standby generating station, possibly
serving high- and low-lift pumps and a water treatment works as well. Careful
consideration then needs to be given to the generating capacity needed, which will
depend on such fundamentals as the duration of the outage to be covered which affects the
fuel storage required, how much of the plant must be kept operational, what size is the
largest motor to be started, and so on. If providing a large generating plant is essential,
substantial capital investment in plant will be needed, but it could stand idle for most of its
life. The option should then be considered of operating the generating plant continuously
to provide the base load required, since unused generating installations are prone to
deterioration unless regularly operated, and the operative staff need to have experience of
running the plant.
   An alternative which may sometimes be possible when a number of sourceworks
contribute to the total water supply, is to set up a pool of mobile generating sets, which
can be transported to any site where a power outage has occurred, if the same outage is not
expected to affect all works simultaneously. This reduces the amount of standby
generating plant needed, and makes for more cost-effective use of the generators. But
other difficulties can arise. Transporting large generators may be awkward and expensive,
and may be impossible if, for example, snow-storm conditions causing the original
electrical outage also make roads impassable. Simple and speedy arrangements for
receiving and connecting the generators, and for fuelling them, must be made at each point
of use, and more than one size of generator may be needed. Arrangements must also be
made for safe storage and maintenance of the generators to ensure they are always ready
for emergencies.
   If pumping stations and treatment works have to be built where there is no public
electricity supply available within an economic distance, power may have to provided by a
diesel engine on site. If more than one pump has to be operated the diesel engine would
drive a generator to make electrical power available to all pumps and also provide power
for lighting and instrumentation, etc. In rare cases of small isolated pumping stations with
534    Pumping plant." electrical, control and instrumentation systems


only one pump, a small diesel engine can be direct coupled to a pump. Normally, however,
the choice is between building a power station to supply the works, which will have to
include some standby capacity, or negotiating with the electricity supply authority to make
new supply arrangements. The economics of these situations can be complex, being
dependent on the charge the electricity supplier makes for bringing a power line to site, the
terms of the supply, and the need to take into account likely future developments in both
power and water needs. The capital, operating and maintenance costs of diesel-generating
power plant, and the need to provide adequate fuel storage, tend to be high, so that such a
set-up is rarely economic in developed countries such as the UK where electrical grid
supplies are widely available.



12.9      Electric motors for pump drives
The three-phase alternating current (AC) motor is the most common type, and can be
classified as follows:
9     AC induction motors of two types - (i) 'cage' or 'caged' (formerly known as 'squirrel
      cage' motors); and (ii) 'wound rotor' motors (sometimes called 'slip ring' m o t o r s ) - see
      below;
9     synchronous motors;
9     commutator motors.
A C induction motors of the caged type are the most widely used because of their simplicity,
robustness, reliability and low cost. They are inherently fixed-speed machines when
connected to conventional fixed-frequency supplies. This is a handicap for centrifugal
pumps, as the pumps themselves are capable of a wide range of duties without
modification if the speed can be varied. Since many water supply systems require pumping
installations of output varying at different times, fixed-speed pumps are often a
disadvantage. Various methods of altering motor speed have been available for many
years, but most of these have had limited application because of reduced overall efficiency,
limited speed range, limited power capability, or high first cost. Fortunately the continuing
development of various methods of variable frequency drive have overcome most of these
disadvantages, although cost is still an important consideration. Motors designed for
operating at two different fixed-speeds are also available and sometimes can provide an
economical method of altering pump performance.
   The synchronous motor is more expensive because of the need for more complex control
equipment and a DC supply is required (supplied by an 'exciter' driven by the motor itself)
for the rotor which results in the rotor turning at the same speed as the rotating magnetic
field created by the stator. The synchronous motor (which has to be started up by short
circuiting the rotor windings so it acts as an induction motor) is normally used for
applications requiring constant speed operation under varying load conditions, or where
its ability to apply a power factor correction or improve the voltage regulation of the
supply system is justified on economic grounds. If adopted, it is usually only for pumping
large steady outputs of water.
   The commutator motor, which provides variable speed, is now rarely adopted because it
has largely been replaced by the electronic variable frequency drive using the cage type
motor, or the slip energy-recovery type using the wound rotor induction motor.
                                                        12.10 The A C induction motor     535


 Because by far the most commonly used motors for driving pumps are the AC induction
motor of the caged, or wound rotor type, only these are described in more detail below.


12.10 The AC induction motor
The induction motor comprises a stator which incorporates a distributed winding which is
connected to the three-phase electrical supply, and a laminated steel rotor which in its
simplest form has embedded large section bars which are short-circuited at each end. The
motor thus consists of two electrically separate windings which are linked by a common
magnetic field forming a transformer with an air gap magnetic circuit. The three-phase
current in the stator winding produces a smoothly rotating magnetic field whose rotational
speed is given by the equation:

      Rotation speed of magnetic field          supply frequency (Hertz) x 120
   (synchronous speed) (revs per minute)               number of poles

Thus for a supply frequency of 50 Hz a two-pole motor will have a field speed of
3000 rpm, a four-pole motor 1500 rpm, and a six-pole motor 1000 rpm. The rotating
magnetic field cuts the rotor bars and induces a current in them. The rotor current
produces a magnetic field which interacts with the stator field producing an accelerating
torque. The motor will run up to a speed at which the developed torque is equal to that of
the driven load and that required to overcome friction and windage losses. In practice, the
rotor cannot attain synchronous speed with the magnetic field because under such a
condition no current would be induced in the rotor conductors and hence no magnetic flux
and torque would be produced. The difference between the actual speed of rotation and
synchronous speed with the magnetic field is termed the slip. The slip increases with the
load and is normally expressed as a percentage of the synchronous speed. The slip at full
load typically varies from about 6% for small motors to 2% for large motors. The starting
torque and speed characteristics of the cage induction motor of basic standard design are
shown in Fig. 12.5.
   The cage induction motor has a rotor core which is made up of laminations and
conductors of aluminium, copper or copper-alloy non-insulated bars in semi-enclosed
slots, the bars being short-circuited at each end by rings. For the smaller motor ratings, the
rotor bars and end rings are often cast. The advantages are simple construction, low cost
and low maintenance. The limitations of the cage induction motor of basic standard
design are low breakaway torque and high starting current, the former typically ranging
from 0.5 to 2.0 times and the latter three to seven times rated values, depending on motor
rating and number of poles. These limitations can be improved by the use of motors with
multi-cage rotors. The multi-cage rotor in its simplest form, comprises a low reactance and
a high resistance outer or starting cage which predominates during the starting period and
results in increased torque and reduced current, and an inner cage exhibiting low resistance
which is dominant under running conditions.
   The wound rotor induction motor design incorporates a three-phase, star configuration
rotor winding brought out to slip rings to which external resistance is connected for
starting. This type of motor is used where high starting torque, reduced starting current
and controlled acceleration characteristics are required. The magnitude of starting torque
and current, and acceleration period are determined by the value and stages of external
536   Pumping plant." electrical, control and instrumentation systems


        Torque                                               ~                  Pull-outtorque
                  ~L~              r~176
                                      t~        ~                    /

                                    ~               ] Ac~e~ratingI i i ~       L~ t~
                                                    ]                          Ratedtorque
                  ~. ~.._. P_.ull-uptorque _.. , _ .    --                 1


                S:}eed        =
                                                                          Ratedspeed
        Current



                          torque                                 ~    ,
                                                                      I
                                                                               Ratedcurrent

                                                                      I


                Speed         =                                       I
                                                                     Rated speed
Fig. 12.5 Torque and speed characteristics of the standard cage induction motor.

resistance. Under running conditions the slip rings are shorted-out. Disadvantages of the
wound rotor motor are higher cost and additional slip ring and brush gear maintenance.


Rated output, starting torque and start frequency
The rated output of an induction motor is for the designated duty when the ambient
temperature of the coolant air does not exceed 40~ or, in the case of a water-cooled
motor, the temperature of the water entering the heat exchanger, does not exceed 2 5 ~
both at a height above sea level not exceeding 1000 m. The supply voltage may deviate
between 95 and 105% of the rated voltage of the motor without affecting the rated output.
When the motor is operated in conditions different from the reference values, the motor
rated output will be affected, and these factors must be considered at the time of motor
selection, ~ as must the requirement for the motor to operate continuously at voltage
tolerances differing from the rated value by :t: 5%. For applications where the motor is
required to operate under varying and cyclic load conditions, which may include periods
of either no-load or standstill, reference should be made to the manufacturer giving details
of the load inertia and the load-time duty sequence.
   Starting torque. The standard cage induction motor is designed to produce a starting
torque between standstill and that at which pull-out (minimum) torque occurs, of not less
                                          12.11 AC induction motor starting methods      537


than 1.3 times a torque characteristic varying as the product of the square of the per unit
speed, and rated torque. The square law torque is representative of the run-up
characteristic of the centrifugal pump. The factor of 1.3 is chosen to allow for a voltage
of 90% rated value at the motor terminals during the starting period. The load and motor
torques characteristic during the starting period should be considered at the time of motor
selection. This is of particular importance where the motor is required to start with a
voltage drop greater than 10%, typically for other than direct-on-line starting control.
   Frequency of starting. The standard cage induction motor is designed to allow two starts
in succession (running to rest between starts) from cold conditions, or one start from hot
after running at rated conditions. Further starting is permissible only if the motor
temperature does not exceed the steady temperature at rated load. Because the number of
starts directly affects motor service life, they should be kept to a minimum. More onerous
starting requirements must be considered at the time of motor selection. For the wound
rotor induction motor the starting frequency is generally dictated by the short-time rating
of the starting resistor.



12.11 AC induction motor starting methods
Factors influencing the starting method. The starting current drawn by an AC induction
motor depends on its type, rating, voltage and starting method. When starting a motor the
resulting current causes a voltage dip which has to be kept within defined limits stipulated
by the electricity supply company to avoid annoyance to other consumers and the real-
operation of connected equipment. The limits will depend on the degree of voltage
variation and frequency of occurrence. While a detailed electrical system analysis is
required in special cases, experience has shown that it is possible to apply general
guidelines based on permitted transient voltage dip at the point of common coupling, that
is the busbar from which other consumers are supplied, and the frequency of motor
starting, to assess whether annoyance is likely to be caused. Typical voltage dip limits are
3% for motors started infrequently, say at intervals longer than 2 hours, and 1% for
motors started frequently. In special cases, for example motors which are either
infrequently started or are located in remote areas, the electricity supply company may
permit a transient voltage dip greater than 3 %. Where large motors are to be installed it is
important to establish at the design stage the transient voltage dip and starting frequency
criteria to determine the method of starting. In addition to complying with voltage dip
criteria at the point of common coupling, it is necessary to assess the ability of the motor
to start and accelerate if the voltage drop at the motor terminals is greater than 10%, and
the effect of motor starting on other parts of the consumer's installation. These aspects can
be significant if the electricity supply is taken from a low fault level rural distribution
system or small capacity transformers, and it is important to take account of these factors
at the time of selecting the motor and its starting method.
   The starting method is determined by motor starting torque and current requirements,
and in some applications, the need to control acceleration. Starting methods for the cage
induction motor can be classified as:
9   full voltage or direct-on-line;
9   reduced voltage (star-delta, auto-transformer and electronic soft start);
9   rotor resistance starting (for wound rotor motors only).
538   Pumping plant." electrical, control and instrumentation systems

Direct-on-line starting is the cheapest, simplest, and most reliable, and is therefore the most
widely used. However, direct-on-line starting causes a high starting current, and may
therefore not be suitable if the electricity supply company requires a reduced starting
current (or limited voltage dip), or shock-free controlled starting is required. With direct-
on-line starting, the applied voltage, starting torque and current are 100% rated values,
and rapid run-up at maximum available torque is achieved. An advantage is that direct-
on-line starting simplifies motor construction, insofar as only one end of each phase
winding need be brought out to terminals. For low voltage motors, the size which can be
started by the direct-on-line method is often arbitrarily limited by the designer to the
smaller ratings, typically up to 15 kW. However, unless the maximum size of motor is
stipulated by the electricity supply company, or is limited by supply transformer transient
loading considerations, there is no restriction on the size of motor which can be direct-on-
line started, provided transient voltage dip and the mechanical impact loading criteria are
met. These design criteria also apply to high voltage motors.
   Star-delta starting is the most usual method used for reduced voltage starting, and
involves connecting the stator winding of the motor initially in star until an optimum
speed is achieved, when it is switched to delta. In star connection the stator windings are
connected phase to neutral; in delta connection the windings are connected phase to phase
- for a 3-phase a.c. supply. When connected in star the voltage across each phase winding
is 58% (1/v/3%) of the supply voltage and the starting current and torque are reduced to
33.3 % of the full voltage values. The starting method is relatively simple and inexpensive
but its use is limited to low inertia drives because of the reduced starting torque. The
disadvantage of the starter type is the possible high transient torque and current which
could occur when switching from star to delta. The number of starts per hour is not
normally restricted by the starter, although consideration has to be given to the
characteristics of the main circuit, short circuit and thermal overload protection. To
eliminate or reduce the high transient torque and current when switching from star to
delta, the closed transient star-delta (Wauchope) type starter can be used, in which
resistance is inserted when changing over from star to delta to provide a no-break
transition. The closed transition type starter provides three steps of acceleration against
the two steps provided by the standard star-delta starter. Because of the additional
resistors and control equipment, the closed transition starter is more expensive than the
standard starter. The number of starts per hour is limited by the short-time thermal rating
of the transition resistors.
    Auto-transformer starting provides more flexibility than the star-delta starting method
because the applied voltage and hence the starting torque and current can be varied by
changing the voltage tapping. The motor starting torque and current are a function of the
 square of the transformer tapping with respect to rated voltage. For example, at 50%
voltage tapping, the torque and current are 25% of the full voltage values, and at 80%
 voltage tapping, the torque and current are 64% of the full voltage values. The ability to
 adjust the voltage of the auto-transformer provides a convenient means for closely
 matching the starting torque to the driven load, and reducing the starting current. For this
 reason, the auto-transformer method has the potential for starting larger motors than
 would be possible with the star-delta method. It also permits 'push button' starting so that
 pumps can be safely started by unskilled personnel. The disadvantages of the auto-
 transformer starter is cost, being considerably more expensive than the star-delta starter,
 and the possibility of high transient torque and current when switching from reduced to
                                                  12.12 AC induction motor protection      539


full supply voltage. To eliminate or reduce the high transient torque and current when
switching from reduced to full voltage, a closed transition configuration whose operating
principle is similar to that of the closed transition star-delta starter, can be used. This
involves the use of a more costly transformer and additional control equipment. The
number of starts per hour is limited by the short-time thermal rating of the auto-
transformer.
   Electronic soft starting. The disadvantages of the previous electro-mechanical starting
methods can be mitigated in part by electronic soft starting. With this method, the motor
supply voltage is gradually increased linearly up to rated value, providing smooth
acceleration, controlled and reduced starting current typically between 200 and 300% of
full load value, and controlled motor torque. At full speed, the electronic controls would
normally be by-passed, and the motor connected directly to the mains supply. The
electronic soft starter is more complex and expensive than the electro-mechanical direct-
on-line and star-delta motor starting methods.
   Rotor resistance starting of wound rotor inductionmotors is used where the applied load
has a large moment of inertia requiring a high starting torque, or the starting current needs
to be limited for supply system voltage drop considerations, or controlled acceleration is
required. With the connection of external resistance into the rotor circuit via the slip rings,
high starting torque and low starting current can be obtained. Typically, for full load
torque at standstill, the starting current will be in the order of 125% full load value. By
selection of resistance, starting torques of 200-250% can be attained with corresponding
currents of 250-300%. The resistance is either the multi-stage metallic non-inductive grid,
or the liquid type, the latter providing smooth control of acceleration. The number of
starts per hour is limited by the short-time thermal rating of the rotor resistance.


12.12 AC induction motor protection
The function of the protection is to initiate disconnection of the motor from the supply to
prevent or limit damage caused by overheating due to abnormal load or failure of the
winding insulation. For low voltage motors, the protection provided needs to be
determined by consideration of factors such as motor cost, and the characteristics and
importance of the drive. The degree of protection provided can range from the thermal
overload relay, to a motor protection relay providing high-set overcurrent, overload, earth
fault, negative phase sequence (unbalance) and stall protection. The motor protection
relay would not normally be used for motors rated below 50 kW. High voltage m o t o r s -
irrespective of r a t i n g - are provided with high-set overcurrent, overload, earth fault,
negative phase sequence (unbalance) and stall protection. For the larger motors, typically
1000 kW and above, high-speed differential protection is often provided to minimise
damage to the stator core in the event of a stator winding fault. For motors where a
reversal in the direction of rotation could cause damage to the driven load, for example to
a screw pump, phase reversal protection should be provided.
   Additional motor winding and bearing protection can be provided by thermistors,
thermocouples and resistance elements. This method gives protection against faulty
conditions which are not reflected in the line current of the motor. For applications
requiring temperature indication, in addition to alarm and motor tripping initiation, the
thermocouple or resistance element is used. Thermocouples can be located in stator slots,
stator end windings, cooling air circuits and bearings. The location of resistance elements
540   Pumping plant: electrical, control and instrumentation systems


is the same as for the thermocouple with the exception of the stator end winding. The
degree of protection provided by the three devices is good and response to temperature
change is fast.


12.13 Speed control of AC induction motors
When speed control is needed for pump drives there is no simple solution which is of
general application, and the capital cost and benefits provided must be assessed carefully
in each case. The standard AC induction motor is a constant speed machine, the speed
being determined by the number of poles and frequency of the supply on which they
operate. The two most commonly used methods of speed control are based on changing
these parameters, although it is to be noted that limited speed variation can be obtained by
using the wound rotor type induction motor and varying the rotor resistance. The latter
method of speed control is inefficient because of the power dissipated in the resistance and,
for this reason, would not normally be considered, and has been replaced by slip-energy
recovery systems whereby, instead of wasting power in the rotor resistance, it is returned
to the supply thereby improving efficiency. The most commonly used methods of speed
control are summarised below.
(a) Pole changing motor. The simplest form of pole changing motor has a single-tapped
    winding, also known as a Delanger winding, which provide two speeds in a ratio of
    2:1, for example 3000:1500 rpm for a motor connected to a 50 Herz supply. A variant
    on the single-tapped winding is a motor with two separate windings, which can
    provide any combination of two speeds. By combining the tapped and two winding
    arrangements up to four speeds can be obtained, for example 3000, 1500, 1000, 500
    rpm at a supply frequency of 50 Hz.
(b) Pole amplitude modulated motors. The pole amplitude modulated (PAM) motor is a
    development of the single-tapped 2:1 speed ratio winding, and speed change is
    achieved by reversing one-half of each phase which changes the magnetic flux
    distribution and produces a resultant field of different polarity. Various combinations
    of speed ratios can be obtained with this motor design. Other than speed ratio, the
    advantages of PAM motor design over the pole changing type are better utilisation of
    active materials resulting in smaller physical size for a specific speed ratio and rated
    power, and improved efficiency and power factor.
(c) Variable frequency drives. This form of drive uses a standard cage induction motor,
    and speed regulation is achieved by varying the supply frequency. The variable
    frequency drive controller is of the static design, the basic components of which are a
    rectifier connected to the AC supply, an inverter to provide a variable frequency
    supply to the motor, and a DC link between the rectifier and the inverter. The motor
    speed can be regulated typically over the range 10-200% motor rated speed.
    Harmonic currents are produced by the rectifier which reflect into the electricity
    supply system, and can cause interference with other consumers or be detrimental to
    connected plant such as capacitors, generators and motors. The electricity supply
    companies lay down guidelines for the permitted magnitude of individual harmonic
    currents and/or harmonic voltage distortion, and this aspect needs to be considered
    carefully at the design stage. Methods available for reducing harmonic currents are to
    increase the rectifier from 6 pulse to 12 or 24 pulse, depending on the power rating of
    the drive, install filters, or use phase shifting supply transformers. Increasing rectifier
                                                                        12.15 Boosting   541


    pulse number or installing filter will considerably increase the cost of the drive. When
    selecting an induction motor for use with a variable frequency drive controller, the
    following factors need to be considered:
     9 increased losses and hence heating in the magnetic circuit caused by the harmonics
         in the inverter output waveform;
     9 power and torque requirements throughout the speed operating range, and
     9 impaired cooling at low speed operation, an important consideration for constant
         torque loads.
(d) Slip energy recovery. The slip energy recovery variable speed drive, also known as a
    Kramer drive, uses a wound rotor type induction motor and operates on the principle
    of recovering rotor energy and feeding it back into the supply. The mechanism for
    doing this is to convert the slip ring frequency power to DC and, in the case of the
    static type drive, return the power to the mains supply via an inverter. An alternative
    to the inverter would be a DC motor driven asynchronous generator. A direct
    connection between the rotor and the mains is not possible because both the rotor
    voltage and frequency vary with motor speed. Harmonic currents are produced by the
    inverter, and the considerations summarised for the variable frequency drive apply.


12.14 Savings from use of automatic controls
The extra capital expenditure required to provide automatic controls can be quickly repaid
by the resulting saving in labour costs. As a result, modern automatic control systems have
been intensively developed in recent years and their reliability when properly designed and
installed is now extremely high. Other cost benefits can follow, for example by optimising
plant operating regimes. The application of automatic controls has been aided by the
predominant use of electric motor drives, which are readily adapted to this means of control.
Control may be completely automatic, i.e. both starting and stopping being controlled, or
semi-automatic, when it is usual to arrange only for shutdown to be automatic.
   The ever-increasing use of computers in control applications has also been beneficial,
particularly in complex pumping systems. Regimes have been developed to regulate the
operation of pumping stations in accordance with pre-planned programmes, for example,
designed to minimise power costs. This can be done by ensuring that best use is made of
electricity supply tariffs- concentrating pumping at times of low-cost electricity, reducing
pumping when possible at times of higher cost, and avoiding incurring high maximum
demand charges. The calculations involved in such optimisations may be complex, and
may involve negotiation with the electricity supply authority to achieve the best results.
Such computerised control systems can also be readily designed to take account of a wide
variety of conditions. Some examples are: preventing the over-frequent starting of electric
motors; sharing the hours run equally between a number of pumpsets; co-ordinating the
operation of different pumping stations serving the same supply area; and regulating the
operation of pumping stations arranged in series along a long transfer main.


12.15 Boosting
Boosting is a pumping arrangement which augments the pressure or quantity of water
delivered through an existing system. (The term is sometimes wrongly used to mean simple
pumping.) There are many possible arrangements, but the following are the most important:
542   Pumping plant." electrical, control and instrumentation systems

(1) the addition of a fixed extra flow to an existing supply;
(2) the addition of a fixed extra pressure to an existing supply,
(3) the maintenance of a given pressure, irrespective of the flow.

Addition of fixed extra flow or pressure

To increase the flowrate, two similar pumps can be connected in parallel; to increase the
pressure two similar pumps can be connected in series. For lesser increases the pump
added in parallel or series will be of a smaller rating. In either example, the characteristics
of the system into which the pumps are to deliver must also be considered. Figure 12.6
shows the characteristic flow-pressure curve for a pump A. For series working of two such
pumps, the joint characteristic curve (A + A) is obtained. The characteristic curve S,
which indicates the head-flow relationship for the system into which the pumps are
delivering, must also be drawn, which shows how the friction losses increase with flow.
The point of intersection of the curves (A + A) and S indicates the joint output of the two
pumps A in series, which is clearly less than the sum of the individual outputs. If the
pumps are connected in parallel, a pump characteristic curve (A II A) can be drawn by
adding the individual pump flows at the same head. Again, the point where this curve cuts
curve S indicates the joint output of the pumps, this time working in parallel delivering
into the same system.
   The foregoing is not enough to confirm whether it is practicable to connect the two
pumps in series or in parallel. A hydraulic gradient must now be drawn for the system in
which the pumps are to work to confirm that the siting of the added pump is correct.
Referring to Fig. 12.7, suppose pump A initially draws water from reservoir R~ and pumps
it to reservoir R2. When pump A is delivering water the hydraulic gradient for the output



                      125
                            ~         s         it~                                     Head developed if flow
                                              ~ ( .                                     restricted to 13 Ml/d

                      100 -                                                                                  [vwo pump~ I
                                                                                                              [ in seriesgive!
                                               [Twosomes--]\                                                                 i
                 0                             /in parallel give I                         ~              /
                 ~     75
                 l-         -                    16 Mt/d
                                                . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                        _ ~                 rw
                                                                                             ~

                            ~             ~                 i                   n                o PUmpsin Parallel(A
                       50

                                 I                            /                                  ~              Flow developed
                                 I                 ~-n. . . . ",ran                                       ~     if head kept
                       25         [                I, .,,,~.~'~
                                                      ~.".          ,.~                                       ~ at 50m
                                Static             I
                                lift               I at 50m head
                                                   t




                                          1                     I,,         ,       1                ,1                1
                        0                 5                  10                     15               20               25         30
                                                         Delivery (Ml)/d or 103m3/d

Fig. 12.6 Output of two pumps connected in series or in parallel.
                                                                                                    12.15 Boosting      543


of pump A will be the line abcd. If the flow is increased by an amount Q then the hydraulic
gradient must change to some line ab~dd where b ~ is lower in elevation than b, and c~ is
higher in elevation than c. The difference cb was the pumping head which had to be
developed by pump A alone. The difference c~b~ is the new pumping head which must be
developed by pumps (A + A). The following must then be checked:
(1) The position of b' must not be so low in relation to the elevation of the pumps that
    suction troubles result. Ideally, there should be no negative pressure on the suction
    side of the pumps because this could cause cavitation and will reduce the pump
    efficiencies. (Negative pressures in water supply systems are also undesirable anyway,
    because of the risk of in-leakage of contaminated groundwater when buried mains are
    used.)
(2) The enhanced pressure represented by c' must not be beyond the safe rated working
    pressure on the body of pump A, or of the valves, fittings, and delivery main to
    reservoir R2.
(3) If the pumps are to be operated in series the joint duty must not cause pump A to be
    overloaded (if this is so then the difficulty might be overcome by changing its
    impellers).
(4) Provided that pump A is not overloaded, its efficiency at its new duty point must be
    checked. The joint efficiency of the two pumps working together must also be studied;
    it may be concluded that it would be better to scrap pump A altogether and have an
    entirely new pump, capable of managing the whole of the enhanced duty.
(5) If the pumps are to be run in parallel they must have stable running characteristics.
If consideration (2) indicates that an extra pump cannot be sited alongside A, one solution
might be to place pump A ~ somewhere along the line between the pumping station and R2.
Overpressurising the main would have to be overcome by replacing some or all of it. If
suction conditions could cause trouble, then some or all of the delivery main from R1 to
the pumping station may have to be duplicated to reduce the friction losses at the
augmented flow.




                                              C t         .


                       Hydraulicgradient~           .~        ~-~.
                       at increasedflow ~ 1                   |               ~ ' ~

                                                                  .   .   .   .   .   .




                                              ,!         New head must                          ~           R~   "'~-
                         Initial hydraulic~   !i         not exceed                         ~               n2
                         gradient       ~ i              permittedhead




            must not be caused                                suction troubles may result
            on suction main

Fig. 12.7 Effect of boosting flow in a rising main to a reservoir.
544   Pumping plant: electrical, control and &strumentation systems

Maintenance of a given pressure
One of the most frequent uses of a booster is to increase the pressure of water in a
distribution system at times of high drawoff. Drawoff normally varies both with time of
day and season. At low drawoff, the pressure may be adequate, but when the drawoff is
high the terminal pressures may be too low. Instead of laying additional feeder mains into
the distribution area, it may be more economical to boost the pressure at times of high
flow. Figure 12.8 shows the hydraulic gradients that may apply before and after boosting.
   An immediate consequence of pressure boosting will be that the flow increases. At the
design stage, the amount of the increase can only be estimated, although modern network
analysis techniques, aided by computer, have reduced the likely errors. Since the area is
starved of water, the flow records will not indicate the true value of maximum demand
when the pressure is raised. The design duty required from the booster pumps must
therefore be judged by the engineer who will take into account that some margin will have
to be kept in hand for any future demands on the system. The value of the pressure needed
to give the flow required must also be investigated, and from these considerations the
characteristics of the pumps required can be decided.
   This kind of booster will probably be arranged to start automatically when the pressure
downstream of the pump reaches a certain low value. Safeguards will have to be included
in the pump controls to prevent hunting and ensure correct interpretation of events: such
things as a burst main near the pumping station, which would increase flow and reduce
pressure, must not be misinterpreted as a normal demand for more water. The duties
required from a booster pump of this kind may be too wide for a fixed speed machine. For
instance, if the demand only slightly exceeds the supply given by the unboosted system,
then the pump is called upon to raise the head of the whole flow of water by only a few
metres, i.e. flow is large against a small head. The flow may later increase substantially so
that the duty required from the pump is a large flow against moderate to substantial head.
If these conditions are more than a fixed speed pump can handle, then a variable speed
drive may be needed. Alternatively a range of pumps could be provided so that these can
be brought into use one by one. Pressure surges must be prevented by slow opening and
closing of valves, or the slow starting of variable speed pumps, and the control system may
become quite complex. A simpler solution to the problem is considered in Section 12.16.
   All automatic control gear must be as robust and reliable as the equipment it controls,
 and must not be so complicated that time is wasted finding a fault that has caused a system


                                                                                      Excess pressure which would develop


                                                                         I"
                                                                              ~
                                                                              .   .
                                                                                      if booster did not cut out at low flow

                                                                                       .   .   .    .   .   .    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .

                                   .Night-flow h y d r a u l i c . .     !
        ...   __ _   ....        /gradient                     ~       . I                                  . . . .

         ..      " ~ ~ - - - .     ~-'-----..                            r'-'---.. ~                                 Boosted pressure



                                                                                           / ~-                 Distribution system ~ - - ~


                                                                       Booster                     Gravity hydraulic gradient
                                                                                                   inadequate at large demand


Fig. 12.8 Effect of boosting the pressure of water direct into a distribution system.
                                                                   12.17 Plant layouts   545


failure. Fortunately, developments with modern electronic control systems using solid
state equipment and programmable logic controllers have greatly improved the reliability
and life of such plants. Modern diagnostic systems and repair-by-replacement techniques
have also greatly improved the speed and ease with which faults can be detected and cured.
Careful design and selection of the right plant is still needed however to get the best from
these innovations.


12.16 Use of balancing storage
Much of the complication of controlling a booster pumping station can be avoided if
balancing storage, such as a high-level tank or water tower, can be built into the system at
an appropriate point. This can add greatly to the safety and economy of the supply. Once
such a tank is connected to the system the booster pumps may be operated by the simple
use of level switches in the balancing tank. When peak drawoffs occur, the water level in
the balancing tank falls and this may be arranged to start a pump in the booster station.
With further lowering of the water level, further level switches may bring additional
pumps into operation or increase the speed of the first pump. This system has many
valuable characteristics:
(1) Sudden large increases of drawoff which last only for a short time may be handled by
    the balancing reservoir without causing the booster pumps to start. Such sudden
    increases can be caused by opening of washouts or by fire-fighting.
(2) The maximum capacity required from the booster pumps is reduced.
(3) The head range against which the pumps have to work is diminished.
(4) Pumping when started can continue until the balancing reservoir is refilled, and the
    load factor and efficiency of the pumps are thereby increased.
(5) Control of the pumps is simple and positive and the possibility of repeated stopping
    and starting of the pumps is almost entirely eliminated.
(6) Future extensions to the boosting system are easier to arrange because there are a
    number of possible ways of further development once there is balancing storage on the
    delivery line.
The size of balancing tank or water tower required is often small because the periods of
peak drawoff on a water distribution system are quite short. If a 5 ml/day supply suffers
from a peak drawoff of 50% above normal for a period of 3 hours, the theoretical size of
tank required would be about 312 m 3, but a tank of one-half or even one-third of this size
would greatly reduce the maximum duty required from the booster pumps.


12.17 Plant layouts
Pumping stations may be arranged in a great many different ways, depending on such
things as land availability, the station duty, the required standards, and the preferences of
the engineers responsible. Cost will always be a consideration, but compromising by
saving initial cost at the expense of future benefits from reduced running costs or
inaccessibility for maintenance should be avoided. Some principles to be considered at the
design stage are as follows.
   Accommodating the plant needed to meet the required duty comes first; this takes
account of the site, the type and number of pumpsets, their drives, valves and pipework,
546   Pumping plant." electrical, control and instrumentation systems

their power supplies, methods of starting and control, access for maintenance, and any
needed surge protection. Once the plant detailed requirements are decided, design of the
pumping station buildings can proceed.
   The main pump hall must leave adequate working space about the machinery. There
should always be a clear space big enough for complete stripping down of one of the units,
which can be the same space as a loading area big enough for access by a vehicle suitable
for carrying the largest plant. A travelling crane is essential for all but the smallest
pumping units, and power operation can usually be justified. The crane should be
arranged to serve all the heavy plant and to cover the loading area. For borehole
installations, a mobile crane may sometimes be judged adequate.
   High-voltage (HV) switchgear and transformers are usually needed for all but the
smallest pumping stations. HV switchgear should be sited in a locked room separate from
the main rooms, with access restricted to authorised personnel. Transformers are usually
mounted outside the building, although in cold climates use can be made of the heat they
generate to provide some background heating to the station if they are inside. Main
switchgear, both high and low voltage, and control panels, must have adequate space both
in front and behind them. About 1 rn should be regarded as the minimum at the back, and
2 m in the front. All switchgear should as far as possible be in line so that the main bus
bars are kept short, and cable routes from switchgear to motors should also be kept as
short as practicable. Instrumentation and control panelling is nowadays often combined
with the low-voltage switchgear panels to achieve a neat installation, and this needs similar
accessibility.
   All cabling and pipework piping should be in conduits of ample size, and runs must be
carefully laid out. When designing cable ducts, the minimum radius to which cables can be
bent must be considered. When designing pipework, T-junctions or 90~              in the line of
flow should be avoided. Radiused junctions and large radius bends should be used to
reduce friction losses which add to station energy consumption. All moving machinery
must be securely bolted to adequate foundation blocks. If pumps are sited over a well or
tank they should preferably be fixed on steel joists, rather than bedded on concrete slabs.
    Heaters are usually essential to prevent damp lowering the resistance of electrical
insulation in switchgear and motors. Electric motors are frequently fitted with built-in
heaters which are energised automatically when the motor is stopped. These are very
effective and take little p o w e r - perhaps 0.25 kW for motors under 50 kW, and up to 1.5
kW for very large motors.
    If air vessels for surge protection are needed, these can be placed outside the pumping
 station if the climate permits, or inside in an unheated part of the station. Outside vessels
may affect the appearance of the station, and in severe climates will need frost protection.
 This can be done with insulation (which may only delay and not entirely prevent the onset
 of freezing), or by arranging a trickle flow of warmer water from the supply main to keep
 the temperature above freezing, or in extreme cases by incorporating electric heaters. If the
 vessels are inside, condensation may occur on their surfaces and cause staining of floors
 and rusting of the vessels.
    Facilities for chlorination may be needed, but these must have no connection with the
 main parts of the building and should preferably be in a separate building with restricted
 access (see Section 9.12).
    Some facilities must usually be provided for the station attendants, even if the site is not
 permanently manned; a small workshop may be justifiable, and a messroom containing a
                                   12.18 Transient pressures." water hammer and surge       547


sink and means for cooking light meals. Sanitation of the highest standard is needed,
together with hot water and washing facilities.


12.18 Transient pressures" water hammer and surge
If a valve in a pipeline is suddenly closed the water immediately upstream of the valve will
be brought to an abrupt stop and will be compressed by the momentum of the upstream
water column. This results in a sudden large increase in pressure known as water hammer.
As the flow is progressively brought to a halt further and further upstream, so the
increased pressure moves upstream as a positive pressure wave. This wave is transmitted
up the pipeline at the speed of sound in water. Similarly, downstream of the valve or
downstream of a pump which has been suddenly turned off, a rapid drop in pressure will
occur and this will be transmitted down the line as a negative wave.
   Secondary pressure waves will be generated as the initial wave passes any fitting or
change to the pipeline, such as an enlargement or tee, but of greater importance is that
when a pressure wave reaches the closed end of a pipeline (such as a shut control valve at
entry into a reservoir) it will be reflected as a wave of the same type, i.e. a positive wave is
reflected as a positive wave, a negative wave as a negative one. Conversely, a pressure
wave reaching an open end to a pipeline discharging to a reservoir or tank will be reflected
as a wave of the opposite type. Even in a relatively simple system, therefore, the pattern of
waves can become complicated and although, in some instances it is the passage of the
initial pressure wave which gives rise to the most critical pressures, that is not always the
case. For instance, an initial positive wave may be reflected from a reservoir as a negative
wave which may then cause negative (i.e. sub-atmospheric) pressures at high points in a
pipeline and allow air valves to open, drawing in air. Later, as the pressure rises again, that
air is expelled and the air valves may slam shut generating shock pressures, which may be
much greater than in the initial event. Similarly, if the pressure falls low enough, vacuum
cavities may form, which may also cause high shock pressures when they subsequently
collapse on a rising pressure. The analysis of transient conditions can thus be very
complicated and the results depend not only on the elements of the system, but also on the
profile of the pipelines. Although methods have been developed in the past for hand or
graphical computations, these days the use of computer programs for the analysis of the
transient conditions is almost universal.
   The main concern with transient pressures is that they should not be high enough to
cause bursting of the pipes or fittings. To put the potential for damage into perspective, it
is worth noting that the rise in pressure head, on a sudden change of velocity A V in a
pipeline, is given by a . A V/g, where a is the velocity of wave propagation and g is the
acceleration due to gravity. In a ductile iron pipeline the wave speed may be as much as
1200 m/s although it is normally between about 900-600 m/s as a result of small quantities
of air dissolved in the water. With this high value for the wave speed, the slamming of a
valve in a pipeline operating at a velocity of 1.5 m/s could lead to a pressure rise of 180 m.
Even with a wave speed of 600 m/s the pressure rise would be 90 m. Such surge pressures
do occur, but are often not recorded to the full extent by the ordinary Bourdon pressure
gauge which is too 'sluggish' in operation to record the peak of the transient pressure rise.
   Codes of practice for most pipe materials allow some transient overstressing above the
allowable operating pressure, which is defined as the internal pressure, exclusive of surge,
that a component can safely withstand in permanent service. However, the designer must
548   Pumping plant." electrical, control and instrumentation systems

also consider all elements of the system including valves and jointing systems and the
resistance of thrust blocks, particularly if an existing system is being uprated. There are,
however, other considerations that may be more critical in a particular installation.
   In potable-water systems it is normal practice to avoid any negative pressures and hence
to eliminate any risk of contamination being drawn in through open-air valves
(particularly if located in chambers below ground in areas of high water table) or through
joints designed primarily to prevent leakage from a high internal pressure. With large
diameter, thin-walled pipes there may a risk of collapse if negative pressures fall to near
vacuum; and certain plastic materials, particularly uPVC, may suffer from fatigue failure if
there are repeated excessive transient pressure fluctuations above a certain magnitude over
the life of the system.
   In the majority of systems the most likely causes of transient pressures are valve closure
and pump stoppage, particularly the latter if a power failure causes simultaneous stoppage
of all operating pumps. Valve closure can be controlled and it is always advisable to ensure
that valves cannot be slammed shut and have a closure time long enough to limit the
pressure rise to within an acceptable range. The minimum time of closure should, at least,
be greater than the time it takes for the pressure wave to be reflected back to the valve
from the far end of the line, 2L/a, where L is the length of the pipeline and a is the wave
speed as defined above. A longer closure time, or closure that allows the last 10-20% of
the movement to be much slower than over the first 80%, may be required (see Fig. 13.5 in
Chapter 13). However, the most critical case is usually a power failure causing
simultaneous stopping of the pumps. Most modern low-inertia pumps stop producing
forward flow of water in a few seconds when turned off.
   Once the potential problems are identified, it is necessary to consider their alleviation. It
is rarely economic to increase the strength of a pipeline solely to cope with surge pressures,
and it is therefore necessary in most cases to provide some other form of protection for the
system. There are a number protective measures that can be adopted as listed below. 2 An
indication of suitable locations for installation of some of the devices mentioned is shown
in Fig. 12.9.
(1) Slower valve closure as already mentioned, obtained by various mechanical means.
(2) Increased pump inertia. Fly-wheels fitted to the pumps reduce the rate of deceleration
    of the pump and the corresponding rate of change of flow.
(3) Air vessels (also referred to as 'surge vessels') which comprise pressure vessels
    connected directly to the pipeline, part of their volume being occupied by compressed
    air. They are commonly used to feed water into the pipeline when the pumps stop but
    they also provide a cushion to absorb high pressures on the returning wave and on
    pump start up. A drawback is that the air is gradually absorbed into the water and
    compressor facilities are required to provide occasional topping up of air in the vessel.
    For this reason they are generally installed only at pumping stations.
(4) Accumulators are identical in concept and operation to air vessels except that the air is
    separated from the water in the vessel by a flexible rubber membrane thus greatly
    reducing the loss of air by absorption. This eliminates the need for compressor
    facilities and allows the use of a gas such as nitrogen in place of air, topped up
    periodically from a portable cylinder.
(5) Surge shafts can be constructed, if the topography permits, but they must extend
    above the hydraulic grade line. Flow is diverted into the shaft or drawn from it, thus
    slowing down the rate of change of flow in the main pipeline.
                                       12.18 Transient pressures." water hammer and surge         549


                            Hydraulic grade line               Surge
                                                               shaft         Delivery
                                                                            reservoir




                  Sump!~~V"                            valve

                   Pump with l~-                      L
                    by-pass
Fig. 12.9 Pipeline profile illustrating suitable locations for installation of surge protection devices
(not all would usually be installed on one pipeline).


(6) Feed tanks operate by feeding water into the line to relieve low pressures. They can be
    located at high points below the hydraulic grade line as they are isolated by non-return
    valves which only allow flow into the pipeline.
(7) Air valves of the large orifice type are also used to prevent low pressures in the line by
    opening to admit air when the pressure falls below atmospheric. Their use for this
    purpose is not generally permitted on potable water schemes because of the risk of
    contamination as mentioned above, and there are potential drawbacks including
    slamming, unless special non-slam valves are used.
(8) Pressure relief valves can be set to open at a given pressure or operate in response to an
    initiating event thus limiting the maximum pressures in a system.
(9) By-pass pipework can be fitted around the pumps to allow water to be drawn from the
    sump provided the pressure on the delivery side falls low enough. However, this may
    be too late to prevent other low pressure problems occurring down the line on a simple
    system, but they may be effective at booster stations where the pressure on the suction
    side of the pumps rises significantly on pump stoppage.
(lO)Non-return check valves can be used along a pipeline to reduce the effect of the
    returning positive pressure or water column, but they may give rise to adverse effects
    themselves so must be analysed carefully and used with care.
With the emphasis of pump manufacturers on producing lighter pumps, fly-wheels and
added inertia are out of fashion but in the right circumstances are the most reliable and
effective form of protection. More commonly on pumping systems a surge vessel or
accumulator is used. Feed tanks may be necessary where the pipeline passes over a high
point near the elevation of the discharge point, but must be designed to prevent the
possibility of contamination entering the chamber and will need a small sweetening flow,
(almost certainly having to be discharged to waste) to prevent stagnation of the water. Air
valves, particularly of the non-slam type, can be effective; but careful consideration must
be given to their use as the primary form of protection of a pipeline because they require
regular maintenance and have often to be sited in remote locations.
   Pump delivery non-return valves need particular attention to ensure they are suitable for
the system and its transient response; especially if a surge vessel is also provided because
the flow in the connecting pipe to the air vessel may reverse very quickly. Ideally, the non-
return valve should shut at the moment of flow reversal but if it reacts more slowly the
550   Pumping plant." electrical, control and instrumentation systems

reversed flow may slam the valve shut with the generation of a high shock pressure. The
dynamic response of the non-return valves should thus be matched to the transient
characteristics of the pipeline system.


12.19 Pump suction design
Pumps should be sited so that negative pressure does not develop on the suction side.
Negative pressure can cause a reduction in the performance of the pump, and may prevent
the pump from being automatically primed. If negative pressure is really unavoidable a 'self-
priming' pump must be specified, but this should be avoidable in many cases by a suitable
design of suction. Figure 12.10 shows a bad design and a good design for a pump suction.
The aim is to minimise pressure losses in the suction system and so prevent air being
released from the flow of water. Another fault that can develop at the inlet to a suction pipe
is vortexing, which can be reduced by fitting flow-straightening vanes at the inlet.
   The diameter of pump suction pipes is usually larger than the delivery pipe diameter to
reduce friction losses by reducing the flow velocity on the suction side. Many suction pipes
for raw water need to be equipped with a strainer, and it is important to keep this in good
condition. If strainers are used, they must be of ample size and should be specified as
having a total area of opening at least double that of the suction pipe. Foot valves, i.e.
non-return valves, fitted at the inlet to vertical suction pipes, are a potential source of



                                 Release of air likely                            ~              ~
                                 at bend                                          ~ - - - - L I ~ I ~ = ~ -'= ~'~r~j.,, .,IL-~.
                          /                                           j~ _L ~ , , / , x . . , , < / / / / A

                      : I ~" ~.,.      "        "/) [" '                  I/                  ~ Best arrangement
                      I' t ~ . [ ~ Inferior arrangement                   i I I               .~ is with pump in a
                      I~           of pump suction                        III     I           ~.] dry well sufficiently
                      i ~                                                 !L=; 'i             :.'t low to have a
                      }1~                                                 ;I I !              ./.~ positive pressure
                umpl !l | x ,            . Better arrangement: " - - - - ~, I iI ]            ~ on the suction " .
                          1('                water led by conduit to I,          (~onnection~ ~176 v/
              ,        ! |~                  suction pipe so that latter IlilI to sump ;/J ~ . ~ - -
                     II ! ~                  may be kept vertical          i !| : - - ~ : - - ~         f ~ ~
                         ,~= ~                                                                        ,,,~, I ..... ,J--~%~;J
                  ';,.   , .~ ,/,,~/, r "     .   .   .   .   .   .                                     '                     ~   ~ / / / , w / / / / , Y / / , " ,"

                  Elevation




                                                                              !
                                                                             k       .....
                                            A wide sump                                                            Keeping the suction close
                                            may give rise to                                                       to the wall and floor
                                            vortex troubles                  :~                                    discourages the formation
                              J ,,,                                                                                of a vortex
             :
                  Plan

Fig. 12.10 Arrangement of pump stations.
                                              12.22 Efficiencies and fuel consumption    551


trouble and should be avoided where possible. If installed they must be of high quality and
be well maintained or they may tend to stick open. They are sometimes installed for
keeping a pump primed when it is idle, but often they are not effective at this if the pump
stands idle over a long period and other priming methods are better. Foot valves are also
sometimes used to prevent reverse rotation of a vertical spindle pump which has a long
rising main, when the pump is stopped. A high speed of reverse-rotation can be caused by
the falling column of water, and to restart a pump when it is rotating in reverse may cause
breakage of the shaft. Instead of a foot valve, a pump may be specified as suitable for
being 'turbined' under reverse flow, and a time delay switch is then incorporated in the
switchgear to prevent restarting before the reverse rotation has stopped.


12.20 Cavitation
Cavitation occurs when the absolute pressure in the pumped water falls to its vapour
pressure, and this can happen if suction conditions are poor. Air or water vapour may
then be released from the water and the entrained bubbles, which may be of minute size,
will be carried into the pump, where entering a higher pressure zone they collapse. A
stream of such bubbles continuously collapsing on the tip of an impeller blade quickly
erodes the blade material. The blade tips become pitted and will be worn away in a short
time. Cavitation can be prevented by good design of the pump, and by maintaining a
positive pressure on the suction side by good design of the pipework and, wherever
possible, siting the pump below or as near as possible to the suction-side water level when
pumping is occurring.


12.21 Corrosion protection
Corrosion protection can be provided for most pumping plant by the correct choice of
pump materials. A more recent development has been the application to pump internal
parts of specially developed coatings. One commonly applied material is the glass-filled
resin-based coating. These coatings have been successfully used for application to the
internal surfaces of pipework, valves, pump bowls, and pump impellers to restore per-
formance following corrosion or erosion attacks. They are also sometimes applied to new
pumps to prevent damage and improve efficiency by presenting smoother surfaces to the
flow. Metal surfaces require careful surface preparation to obtain the full benefits of the
coating material, and since the coatings have significant thickness, care is needed to ensure
that pump passages, particularly at the pump inlet, are not reduced in area so much that
impaired performance results. Clearly this is more significant with the smaller sizes of
pump, and for this reason combined with the cost, coatings cannot normally be justified
on pump sizes of less than about 300 mm branch diameter.


12.22 Efficiencies and fuel consumption
Quoting efficiencies and fuel consumption are difficult because they vary so widely and
every individual case has something special about it. The figures in Tables 12.1 and 12.2
are intended to act as guides to the efficiencies and fuel consumption normally to be
expected. There are wide variations according to the power rating and type of pump and
motor.
552   Pumping plant." electrical, control and instrumentation systems


12.23 Effect of electricity tariffs
The charges made by the electricity supply companies are designed to favour the consumer
who takes a steady supply of electricity at high power factor. The consumer who wants
large power intermittently is penalised. Tariffs usually comprise two, three, or even four
separate charges as listed below. If the supply is required for a new installation in a remote
area, the supply company will usually also ask for a connection charge to recover the cost
of providing the supply.

(1) A 'maximum demand charge' per kW or kVA of maximum demand in that month
    above a given figure (and sometimes, more onerously, per kW or kVA of maximum
    demand for the last 12 months) The charge may differentiate between summer and
    winter maximum demand, and sometimes may be varied month by month.
(2) A 'unit charge' which is a monthly charge for the number of units of electricity
    consumed, the charge per unit being substantially higher for daytime consumption. It
    is usually on a sliding scale allowing reductions when large numbers of units are
    consumed.
(3) A 'fuel clause' which increases the unit price of electricity according to the increase of
    basic fuel cost.



Table 12.1 Efficiencies

Pumps:
Horizontal centrifugal            Medium size 80-82%, perhaps 85% large size. Even higher
                                  with special construction but at higher price
Vertical spindle shaft driven     Tending towards about 3% less than the horizontal centrifugal
Submersible                       75-81% and can be lower, to about 70% for small sizes.
                                  Generally about 3% less again than the vertical spindle pump,
                                  the reason being that the pump is restricted in diameter
Electric motors:
For horizontal pumps              93-95%. Fixed speed AC induction
For vertical pumps                90-94%. Fixed speed AC induction
For submersibles                  85-89%. Less than the above because of the restrictions
                                  imposed on the design
 Variable speed                   About 3-5% less than with a caged AC motor



Table 12.2 Overall fuel consumption

 Electrically driven pumps      About 1.0 kW for every 0.75 kW of water power output, this
                                implies an overall efficiency of about 75% which would be usual.
                                Up to 1.3 kW per 0.75 kW water power output or higher for
                                small pumps or variable speed pumps
 Diesel engines                 0.21 kg of diesel fuel oil consumed per kWh of engine power
                                exerted would be considered good, 0.28 kg per kWh being not
                                unusually high. For lubricating oil add 5% to fuel oil cost
                         12.24 Thermodynamic pump performance monitoring system         553


(4) A 'power factor clause' which increases the maximum demand charge if the power
    factor drops below a certain figure (usually 0.90).
The effect of the maximum demand charge (especially when based upon twelve months)
can be onerous. The larger the gap between the maximum demand and the average
demand, the more penal the maximum demand charge becomes and the more costly the
charges per unit. Hence it is a matter of great importance for pumping stations to be run at
a high 'load factor', i.e. the average power consumed should be as close as possible to the
maximum power required at any time during a month (or year), and pumps should be run
for long periods rather than short, so that the units consumed are as cheap as possible
because their price reduces as more units are consumed per kW of maximum demand
during the billing period. Pumping for short intermittent periods at high outputs is
therefore an expensive way of operating. Similarly, the occasional running of pumps at full
load when they normally run only at part load, or bringing in extra pumps for short
periods can also be expensive. Even the testing of pumps when first installed - perhaps
running several together on t e s t - can bring a heavy extra cost for so brief a run as 30
minutes.
   Choosing the right duty for the pumps, the right hours of working, and the right
amount of standby to be provided for any pumping station are matters that must be
thoroughly investigated. The benefits due to adequate storage in the supply system can be
very significant. These include safeguarding continuity of the supply, levelling out
pumping rates and so reducing friction losses and the maximum power demanded of the
motors, and permitting long steady running at a high load factor to minimise electricity
charges. With modern competitive electricity supply arrangements, the water supply
company may be in a strong position to obtain specially favourable rates from the
electricity supplier. Unlike many users, water companies are usually large electricity
consumers with a steady load for most of the year.



12.24 Thermodynamic pump performance monitoring system
Pumps must be run at the highest possible efficiency to minimise operating costs. Most
pump energy losses result in heating the pumped water by a small amount. Meters have
been developed which rely on very accurate sensors to detect the resulting very small
temperature rises across pumps, which are proportional to the wasted energy. An
advantage of this method is that there is no need to measure the pumped flow directly to
determine the pump efficiency. However these devices are not suitable for all installations,
and they work best with high head machines because the resulting temperature rise is then
higher for the same pump efficiency and power. They are not at present very effective
when used with submersible borehole pumps. Development work is continuing however,
and the performance of these devices continues to improve.
   In a typical installation, temperature probes and pressure transducers are mounted on
the pump pipework to detect the inlet and outlet conditions, as shown in Fig. 12.11. 3 A
micro-processor, usually mounted in portable equipment, is used for analysis of the data
and to allow display of efficiency, flow, head and power consumption. Thermodynamic
pump testing is accepted in Pump Test Standard ISO 51984 as a precision-class test. This
method may be most valuable if repeated regularly to monitor changes in pump
performance with time.
554    Pumping plant." electrical, control and instrumentation systems

                                                      Meterfordisplay
                                                      ofefficiency,flow
                                                      headandpower

                                  .   ,   _             ,   , ,




                  Pressure-H'---I==[i Temperature Temperature
                transducer "---' ~ p r o b e ~        probeI      ] Pressure
             12mmvalveandtapping~la // ~,f- ~,,"~'~~       j~_~::=~transducer
                       ~"EI-                                              applng


Fig. 12.11   Pump performance monitoring system.



12.25 Control and instrumentation (C and I)
The C and I of pumping plants, distribution network flows, and water treatment plant, ]
changed rapidly in the water industry with the introduction of stricter requirements
levels of service to consumers, maintenance of water quality through the distribut:
system, and the development of many specialised and advanced water treatment proces,
The latter alone have necessitated the processing of thousands of signals and la
amounts of data. A typical modern water treatment works control system will inch
10 000-15 000 signals to be processed. The automation of such plants is becom
essential due to this complexity and the large amount of data to be handled. A
automatic control systems are seen as a way to reduce labour operating and supervis,
costs, whilst at the same time maintaining a high quality product.
   Current C and I development has evolved from changes in the electronics industry, wh
have reduced the capital cost of providing complex monitoring and control systems. He:
the industry has moved away from traditional 'hard wired' control systems to the use
more adaptable programmable electronic systems. Three levels of control are practised.
9     Although manual control may be impracticable in the more complex cases, it m
      still be available as a 'fall-back' method for emergencies and when other systems
      unsuitable or fail.
9     Semi-automatic control aids the operator cope with treatment processes which are
      complicated for the operator to control without assistance. Examples of s~
      processes are ozone production, or the overall start-up of plant applying numer~
      chemicals. Some operations which were traditionally manual are now frequer
      specified as semi-automatic.
 9    Full automation is used to control processes with the minimum need for opera
      intervention. This type of control must ensure a high quality, safe product, and t:
      corrective action when failure occurs of plant and equipment. Operator interventio~
      usually limited to entering key set point parameters related to output quality
      quantity.
The degree of automation to be adopted is the most critical decision to be made. In
information technology industry the following terms are in common use.
                                        12.25 Control and instrumentation ( C and I)   555


   Hardware means the device (sometimes programmable) which controls and monitors
the operation of an item of plant.
   Software is the programming logic or set of instructions which designates the task(s) to
be carried out by an item of hardware or a group of hardware. These tasks can range from
starting a pump, to calculating from monitored process variables the appropriate
hardware action or combination of actions to be taken.
   Firmware is a term used in the industry to designate a permanent form of software
(embedded in hardware) which is normally not available for alteration by the operator,
but may have features permitting selection from a standard menu suited to the application.
   Software which is custom designed for a specific application is often referred to as
'application' or 'bespoke' software. Most control systems involve the use of some bespoke
software, the precise specification of which is important. A 'functional design
specification' (FDS) must be prepared in detail setting out all the function requirements
for a piece or set of hardware, and the controls to be applied. Drawing up an FDS is a
critical link in providing a satisfactory monitoring and control system, which must satisfy
all parties involved that it meets their requirements.
   Where two pieces of instrumentation equipment are required to operate as a system, the
interface between them is very important to ensure all necessary data is communicated.
After selecting the correct component for the application, the designer will be concerned
primarily with component compatability - the ability for two or more items of equipment
to operate together as a system. The system designer must also consider the operating life
and maintenance associated with each piece of equipment selected to form a system, a task
which becomes increasingly difficult as the size and complexity of monitoring and control
systems increases.


Systems
A 'system' may involve only one measurement and a controller to maintain a set point of a
single parameter; or it can handle data from many monitoring points and propagate many
plant control commands. A 'distributed control system' (DCS) is now the type most
commonly used (see Fig. 12.12). In it the control logic is distributed within outstations
around the plant being controlled. Until relatively recently the computing power required
to monitor and control plant was not available at outstations, so the entire computing
power was held centrally, relying on a communication network to monitor and control an
outstation and its associated plant. These centrally based systems are now, in almost every
case, obsolete. An up-to-date DCS comprises a number of discrete process control units,
i.e. outstations or remote terminal units (RTUs), linked by a 'state-of-the-art'
communication network as Fig. 12.12. The automatic control logic for each process
area is contained in the RTU and can therefore function independently of the overall
monitoring and control system. A DCS links discrete process blocks to achieve:
9   transfer of data round the system, including changes to control parameters at RTUs,
    such as adjustment of set points or duty plant selection;
9   monitoring of individual RTUs;
9   display and recording of data, events and alarms;
9   safe reaction to changes or failure of individual RTUs which could affect product
    criteria, process performance, or plant safety.
Fig. 12.12   Typical distributed control system linking a number of discrete process block control units.
                                         12.25 Control and &strumentation (C and I)      557


Telemetry is the system for transmitting data from one location to another. The distance
between the two locations can vary from a few metres to thousands of kilometres; virtually
between any two locations with only the limitations of the transmission medium applying
(e.g. hardwired data communication networks, telephone networks, microwave systems or
radio systems, etc.). Telemetry systems used by most monitoring and control systems
include DCS, and SCADA systems referred to below.




Data acquisition, control, and backup requirements
The term SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) refers virtually to any data
acquisition system used, but usually one which exercises monitoring and supervisory
control of a number of sites from a central control centre. Such systems are widely used in
the water industry so that a 24-hour manned control centre can react to any problems
arising at sources or throughout the distribution system.
   Measurement of process parameters can be digital or analogue. Digital is used for
reporting the status of a plant, e.g. whether running or stopped. Analogue measurement is
used to represent variable values, such as chlorine residual or pump output. There are
several standard analogue interface standards. The water industry uses the 4-20 milliamp
loop as the de facto standard. The 4 milliamp value usually represents the lowest end of
the value range and the 20 milliamp the highest. The 4 milliamp value is referred to as 'live
zero', which is used to detect a problem, such as a zero milliamp value which could
indicate a broken connection. The instrumentation industry is working towards
standardising inter-instrument communication with the development of standard
protocols (the communication terms of engagement between two components). Two
such protocol standards are HART (highway addressable remote transducer) and 'Field
Bus'. Also, intelligent instruments are being developed to operate on their own standard
data communication network: 'Profibus' and 'ControlNet' are two such standards.
Although instruments with these capabilities have been available for some time, the
standards have yet to be used extensively in the water industry.
   Uninterruptible power supplies (UPS) are now often used to support water industry
monitoring and control systems, to maintain system operation for a predefined period
during a power supply failure. A plant must always be reviewed for power failure; each
piece of equipment must be controlled into a fail-safe condition when power supply fails.
An ancillary plant may be necessary to fulfil these requirements. Also plant start-up
following a power failure is another key consideration; and automatic start-up or manual
start-up must be reviewed accordingly and specified clearly.
   Modern control systems still frequently utilise hard-wired monitoring methods,
primarily as a back up, fail safe system for a critical process or piece of plant. Shut-
down systems have to be considered carefully; they have to prevent damage and danger to
plant or personnel and ensure there is no failure to maintain output quality. Alarms notify
the need for operator attention when plant, process, personnel, or output quality and
quantity may be at risk. Alerts draw operator attention to any state that may develop into
an alarm if left unattended to (e.g. tank water level high or process flow low, etc.). Events
inform the operator of a 'normal' operating occurrence that may or may not require
attention (e.g. a pumping sequence completed, etc.)
558   Pumping plant: electrical, control and instrumentation systems

Operation and maintenance
Operators of automated treatment facilities need an understanding of electronic control
and software programs, as well as a full knowledge of the treatment processes.
Maintenance of automatic control systems is a specialist's field: this aspect of modern
system installation is often overlooked. The system purchaser must fully appreciate the
maintenance commitment that is involved. The shift from a traditional plant with a high
level of operator input, to plant which has complex software and electronics control, has
not significantly reduced overall operational and maintenance costs of water supply,
because maintenance costs associated with C and I systems for a treatment works tend to
offset the savings due to reduction in plant operational personnel needed. On the other
hand, the wide variety of specialist processes now involved in water treatment require
more complex systems of monitoring and control than would be possible manually.


References
  l. BS 4999, General Requirements for Rotating Electrical Machines. British Standard
     Institution, 1987/1988.
  2. Thornley A. R. D. and Enever K. J. Control and Suppression of Pressure Surges in
     Pipelines and Tunnels. CIRIA, 1984
  3. Yates M. A. A Meter for Pump Efficiency Measurement. Worm Pumps, January
     1989.
  4. ISO 5198: Specification for Acceptance Tests for Centrifugal, Axial and Mixed Flow
     Pumps." Precision Class Tests, 1987 (BS 5316, Part 3: 1988).
                                          13
  Pipes, pipeline construction
           and valves

13.1      Introduction
Pipes, lining materials and joints must not cause a water quality hazard. From 1 July 1999,
materials in the UK on customers' installations are covered by the Water Supply (Water
Fittings) Regulations 1999- and their equivalents in Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Materials used in public supply systems are covered by Regulation 25 of the Water Supply
(Water Quality) Regulations 1989 and amendments- and their equivalents in Scotland
and Northern Ireland. Materials considered to comply on the water supply side are those
(a) approved by the UK Government (DETR) Committee on Chemicals and Materials of
Construction for use in Public Water Supply and Swimming Pools and (b) products
verified and listed under the UK Water Regulations Advisory Scheme (formerly the Water
Byelaws Scheme), administered by WRc plc, UK. From 1 April 2000 approval of
materials which have been in use for some time without apparent problems to health, will
no longer be permitted.


13.2      Types of pipes and organisations setting standards
Pipes found in waterworks systems are generally of the following materials:
(1)   cast or 'grey' iron (now superseded by ductile iron);
(2)   ductile iron (DI);
(3)   steel;
(4)   polyethylene (PE);
(5)   PVC (polyvinyl chloride);
(6)   GRP (glass reinforced plastic); and
(7)   pre-stressed concrete, cylinder or non-cylinder (PSC);
(8)   reinforced concrete cylinder (RC);
(9)   asbestos cement (AC, no longer produced in the UK).
Other materials include galvanised iron, copper and lead which tend to be found in service
pipes, plumbing, common connections and other small diameter mains. Lead was
extensively used in the past for service pipes but is no longer installed because of the
danger of plumbo-solvency (see Section 6.27); however many lead house connection pipes
and plumbing still remain in service. Copper pipe can also give rise to plumbo-solvency
problems from lead solder. In the UK these materials now tend to be superseded by
560   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves


polyethylene and, where lead in water is a problem, lead pipes are generally being replaced
by polyethylene.
   A number of organisations have set standards for pipes and their fittings, using various
terms to define pipe characteristics or pressures applied to pipes or pipe systems. Table
13.1 lists the terms most widely used (as in this chapter) and references for their
definitions. Other specific terms are explained in their context. A short bibliography at the
end of this chapter gives the main range of standards applying.


Table 13.1 Abbreviations for pipe and pipe system standards

Standards &sued by various organations
BS EN          denotes a British Standard according with a Comit+ Europ6en de Normalisation
               (CEN) standard
BS             denotes a British Standard issued before a CEN standard was issued and not
               necessarily complying with a subsequent CEN standard
prEN           CEN standard in preparation
CP             a British Standard Code of Practice, discontinued in mid 1970s (later Codes were
               given a BS or BS EN number)
ISO            a standard issued by the International Standards Organisation
Some abbreviations used in standards
For pipes
DN:            nominal diameter in millimetres, shown as DN followed by a number (ISO 6708)
PN:            nominal pressure in bar or metres of water (ISO 7268 and 7268/1). PN for
               flanges refers to the maximum allowable working pressure, excluding surge.
               1 bar - 10.19 m head of water
For pipe pressures
PFA:           allowable operating pressure, excluding surge (prEN 805)
PMA:           allowable maximum operating pressure, including surge (prEN 805)
PEA:           maximum allowable hydrostatic test pressure after installation (prEN 805)
For pipe system pressures*
DP:            design pressure - maximum operating internal pressure of a system or zone fixed
               by the designer but excluding surge (BS EN 1295-1)
MDP:           as DP but including surge- designated MDPa when there is a fixed allowance
               for surge or MDPc where surge is calculated (BS EN 1295-1)
STP:           system test pressure as applied after installation (BS EN 1295-1)

*The pressure rating for a pipeline system may well be limited by fittings and particularly flange
pressure ratings.



13.3 Structural design of pipes
Pipelines are required to withstand internal hydrostatic pressure, external pressure from
soil, surcharge and traffic loads and to be safe against buckling. 1-3 Soil load increases with
depth: surcharge and traffic loads reduce with depth. Main road traffic load depends on
the wheel load and configuration considered but typically accounts for less than 10% of
                                                         13.3 Structural design of pipes 561

the total at 6 m depth and the minimum total load under main roads typically occurs at
about 1.8 m depth. BS EN 545 gives traffic loads for ductile iron pipes and tabulates
allowable heights of cover for different combinations of traffic load and backfill
compaction.
  Pipes can be grouped as rigid, flexible and semi-rigid. Rigid pipes deflect little and carry
external loads in ring bending. Their load carrying capacity is derived from ring bending
strength (as designed or measured by crushing tests)- which can be increased by bedding
factors appropriate to various standardised bedding and surrounds. Flexible and semi-
rigid pipes deflect under load in inverse relation to the stiffness of the pipe and overall soil
modulus (comprising both embedment and native soil modulus). Flexible pipes derive
their support primarily from passive soil pressure which develops as the pipe ovalises
under vertical load and deflects horizontally into the trench backfill. The contribution of
pipe stiffness is small. Ring bending stress is traditionally not taken into account for steel
pipes, but is addressed as combined hoop and bending stress for thermoplastic (PE and
PVC) pipes. Bending strain is calculated for GRP pipelines. Overall soil modulus is a
function of the backfill type and compaction and depth. It also depends to some extent on
the modulus of the native soil, which, if weak, may require the trench width to be increased
or the backfill material and compaction to be improved or both. Safety against buckling of
flexible pipes also depends on overall soil modulus. Flexible pipes require more care in
selection and control of backfill than other pipe types but offer economical solutions and
are therefore widely used. Other pipe types also require attention to backfill materials and
workmanship. Semi-rigid pipes derive their support partly from the soil and partly from
the pipe stiffness. Their design takes into account ring bending stress. Permissible
deflection limits for ductile iron pipes are set to limit ring bending stress in the pipe wall
and for joint and lining performance.
   Rigid pipes include concrete and asbestos cement. Flexible pipes include thin walled
steel (diameter-to-thickness ratio more than about 120) and plastics. Ductile iron pipes are
classed as semi-rigid. Flexibility is determined by ring bending stiffness (specific stiffness),
S (kN/m 2) = EI/D 3 = 1000E (t/D)3~12, where E is the modulus of elasticity (N/ram2), t is
the mean pipe wall thickness and D is the mean diameter of the pipe (outside diameter less
thickness). Ring bending stiffness may also be expressed in units of N/m 2. This diametrical
value is distinct from and is one-eighth of the stiffness based on radius, used in Germany.
   Typical values for semi-rigid and flexible pipes in the range DN 100-2000 are 1350-16
kN/m 2 for ductile iron; 580-4 kN/m 2 for steel; and, irrespective of diameter (except for
small diameters) 80-16 kN/m 2 for PVC, 17-8 kN/m 2 for MOPVC (see Section 13.15), 10-5
kN/m 2 for GRP and 80-4 kN/m 2 for PE. In comparison, reinforced concrete pipe stiffness
is typically about 500-600 kN/m 2 for DN 800 and above and stiffer at smaller diameters.
Very flexible pipes (stiffness less than about 4 kN/m 2) are at risk of deflection to a
'squared' shape (as the pipe is deflected first inwards and upwards and then downward
and outward as backfill is built up in layers): they are not recommended without great care
in construction and specifically not for plastics pipes. 4 This value is also adopted under the
European standards being developed for plastics pipes. A stiffness of 4 kN/m 2 (4000 N/
m 2) is equivalent to a diameter/thickness (D/t) ratio of about 160 for steel pipes. This is
similar to the D/t range of 160-180 quoted as the maximum suitable for centrifugal cement
mortar or spun concrete lining. (Above this range, pipes need flexible lining or can be lined
with cement mortar lining in situ.) Despite case histories of much greater values, D/t for
562   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves

steel pipes should in no case be more than 200 (stiffness 2 kN/m 2) to retain sensible control
during installation.
   Characteristics of plastics pipes change with time, in particular the modulus of elasticity,
E, reduces very considerably with increasing time. 'Short term' is defined as the 1 hour
modulus. Long-term values are obtained by extrapolation of tests over various periods to
obtain 50-year values. Long-term values must be taken into account in design and for PVC
and PE, respectively, may typically be 50 and 25% of the short-term value- but this depends
on specifics of the actual material used. 'Ultra short-term' (10 second) values are
significantly greater than the 1,hour values and are applied when calculating pressure surges.
   Structural design in general is based on the pipe cross-section. Longitudinal bending
arising from uneven trench support or differential movement tends only to be specially
considered where pipes are designed to be supported at discrete intervals- as on piles or
above ground. Similarly ring bending tends not to be included specifically in steel pipe
design. These elements therefore are implied to be included for in the factors of safety-
but where necessary can be separated and combined as equivalent stresses according to the
appropriate design codes.
   Work by the European standards organisation, CEN (Comit6 Europ6en de Normal-
isation), to develop a common calculation approach found that the several European
methods (and American methods) were similar: principal differences were in coefficients
and in values used for soil stiffness and assumptions for soil support. Differences may also
arise from design strategy: adopting low factors of safety to upper and lower bound loads
and strength, or higher factors of safety to mean loads and strength. BS EN 1295-1:1998
summarises the various European design methods. National annex A of this standard sets
out procedures established in the UK for the three pipe categories. BS EN 1295-2, due to
be published at the end of 1999 will give details of the European methods. Work towards a
common European design methodology is in hand but there is no date yet set for
publication.


Cast iron pipes
13.4 Cast or 'grey' iron pipes
Iron pipes made towards the end of the nineteenth century were cast in vertical sand
moulds. Many waterworks still have some of these pipes in use. Their walls were relatively
thick and not always of uniform thickness because of occasional misplacement of the
central core mould.
   'Spun' grey iron pipes were first produced in the UK in the 1920s, the molten cast iron
being poured into cylindrical moulds rotating at high speed so that the pipe walls were
formed by centrifugal force. After a few moments of spinning the metal solidified and the
pipe contracted slightly so that it could be drawn in a red hot state from the mould. It was
then sent for reheating and slow cooling to reduce stresses arising from cooling. By this
process a denser iron resulted and the pipes were of uniform wall thickness. These 'spun'
iron pipes were in widespread use from the 1930s to the 1960s and now comprise a large
proportion of the distribution mains of water undertakers in many countries. Three classes
of such pipes were in common use: B, C, and D for working pressures of 60, 90, and 120 m
respectively. Classes B and C were predominantly used, but because their outside
diameters in the larger sizes were different, and also to reduce stocks and possible
confusion in use, many water undertakers used only class C pipes rather than a mixture of
                                                                13.5 Ductile iron pipes   563


classes B and C. Carbon is present in the iron matrix substantially as lamellar or flaky
form: therefore the pipes are brittle and relatively weak in tension and liable to fracture.
The manufacture of grey iron pipes has now been discontinued in most countries, except
for the production of non-pressure pipes for rainwater and soil drainage.


13.5    Ductile iron pipes
Ductile iron pipes are normally cast by centrifugally spinning molten iron in high quality
steel moulds; fittings are cast by pouring the metal into steel or sand moulds. Small
quantities of magnesium are added to transform the lamellar form of carbon into a
spheroidal form, thereby increasing the tensile strength and ductility of the iron. Pipes are
heat treated (annealed) after casting. The resulting pipe is stronger and less liable to
fracture than grey iron. Ultrasonic tests may be carried out at selected locations on the pipe
body. Ductile iron pipes and fittings up to DN 2000 for potable water are covered by BS
EN 545. This also covers design for external loads. BS 8010 Section 2.1 covers installation.
   Ductile iron pipes are manufactured in the UK in sizes up to DN 1600 with socket and
spigot ends suitable for forming push fit type joints, plain ends suitable for jointing with
flexible couplings, or with flanged ends formed by welding on ductile iron flanges
complying with BS EN 1092-2. Pipes larger than DN 2000 are manufactured elsewhere
but sizes exceeding DN 2000 are jointed with other than the push fit type. Standard
lengths vary depending on the diameter of the pipe, the type of ends required, and where
the pipe is manufactured. In the UK standard lengths for socket and spigot ended pipes
are 5.5 m up to DN 800 and 8 m for DN 900 and larger.
   BS EN 545 requires wall thickness, e in mm for pipes and fittings to comply with the
formula
         e = K(0.5 + 0.001DN)
where D N is in mm; K = 9 for socket/spigot, plain ended and welded flange pipes; K = 12
minimum for fittings without branches, e.g. bends and tapers; K -- 14 minimum for
fittings with branches, e.g. tees; a negative tolerance is allowed not exceeding (1.3 + 0.001
DN), subject to a minimum wall thickness of 6 mm for pipes and 7 mm for fittings.
   The allowable operating pressure excluding surge (PFA), including surge (PMA), and
the maximum allowable test pressure after installation (PEA) vary with the diameter of
pipes as shown in the following table for selected sizes.

PFA, PMA and PEA values for K9 ductile iron pipes, based on BS EN 545

 Nominal diameter DN (mm)         PFA value (bar)      PMA value (bar)        PEA value (bar)
 <200                             64                   77                     96
  200                             62                   74                     79
  300                             49                   59                     64
  400                             42                   51                     56
  600                             36                   43                     48
  900                             31                   37                     42
 1200                             28                   34                     39
 1600                             27                   32                     37
564    Pipes, pipeline construction and valves

   The PFA values allow for a safety factor of three on the ultimate tensile strength of
ductile iron of 420 N/mm 2. PMA, the allowable maximum operating pressure including
surge is approximately 20% more than the PFA. PEA, the maximum allowable
hydrostatic test pressure after installation is, in general, PMA plus 5 bar; except for
pipes smaller than DN 200 where PEA is 1.5 times PFA.
   When ordering pipes and fittings, specification of the operating and test pressures is
vital, so that the pipes and fittings, particularly tees, can be made to suit. For very high
pressures (PFA typically 25 bar or more, but depending on the diameter and type of
fitting) availability should be checked.
   Joints are required to be watertight at PEA and to durably withstand without leakage
the PMA pressure under service conditions, including angular, radial and axial movement.
   Works test pressures on individual items are also specified in BS EN 545 and are
generally similar to, or a little less than PFA values.
   BS EN 545 sets out a design methodology and gives a table of allowable external loads
for selected backfill conditions.


13.6     External coatings and internal linings
Current UK practice for external coating of ductile iron pipe comprises spray coating with
zinc onto the exterior of the pipes, followed by a coating of bitumen paint. For aggressive
soils polyethylene sleeving, either factory or site applied, is often adopted, plus imported
backfill where appropriate. Minor damage and puncturing of the sleeving does not impair
the efficiency of the protection, although any such tear should be patched with adhesive
tape. The effectiveness of the wrapping, even though the sheeting is not watertight, is
ascribed to insulation of the pipe from uneven soil contact (which can produce galvanic
cells) where there is an uneven pipe bed and surround, particularly in the case of clay soils
which are hard to compact near the bottom of the pipe; also the sleeving also holds a
virtually static body of water against the pipe. For highly aggressive soils the pipes can be
wrapped with a heavy duty PVC backed bitumen adhesive tape, overlapped 25 mm or
55%. Cathodic protection is not normally recommended but, if used, requires bonding
across the joints to provide electrical continuity and tape wrap to reduce current and
anode consumption. A points system, depending on soil resistivity, ground water level and
other characteristics, can be used to judge the potential severity of aggression in a given
location.
   Earlier ductile iron pipes were coated with cold or hot applied bitumen or hot applied
bitumen-based material sprayed or brushed onto the pipe metal. The former use of coal-
tar products for coatings and linings was discontinued because coal-tar can give rise to
PAHs in potable water (see Section 6.36).
   Internal lining of ductile iron pipes now adopted in the UK comprises spun mortar
lining, using sulphate resisting cement to BS 4027 plus, for pipes DN 800 and smaller, an
epoxy seal coat on top of the cement mortar. Details of cement mortar lining are given in
Section 13.10.


13.7      Joints for iron pipes
Types of joints in use are shown in Fig. 13.1.
                                                              13.7 Joints for iron pipes   565




Fig. 13.1 Joints for iron pipes.


   The run lead joint for use with spigot and socket pipes is now superseded by the various
proprietary mechanical joints, but many mains still in use have been laid with this joint.
Skilled workmanship is required to make the joint properly. The lead has to be heated to
400~ at which temperature the molten lead shows strong rainbow colours when the
surface scum is drawn aside. A clip is placed around the pipe against the annular space of
the socket and the lead must be poured in one continuous pour through an opening left at
the top of the clip. The operation is dangerous if not undertaken with care and the socket
space must be quite dry to avoid blowback of the lead by steam. The lead solidifies almost
immediately after pouring and is then caulked up using a series of chisels. The joint is rigid
and slight movement brings a tendency for such joints to weep; however, countless mains
have been satisfactorily laid with this type of joint.
   Flanged joints are covered by BS EN 1092-2. Flanges must be carefully aligned before
the bolts are inserted and the flanges pulled together. The alignment must be almost as
precise as that adopted for aligning motor couplings. To pull up misaligned flanges is
likely to cause fracture of the pipe or flange. A rubber ring is inserted between the flanges,
of such diameter that it lies inside the bolt circle but does not intrude into the pipe bore.
The faces of the flanges and the rubber ring must be perfectly clean before assembly and
the bolts must be tightened up in sequence little by little so that an even pressure is
maintained all round. No grease, bitumen paint, oil, dirt, grit, or water should be
permitted on the flange or rubber ring faces. The contact should be between clean dry
metal and clean dry rubber. When making joint faces which are vertical, some difficulty
may be experienced in keeping the rubber ring flat against the vertical flange face and, to
counteract this, a little clear rubber solution may be used to tack the rubber ring on to the
metal face. This is the only material whose use can be permitted in connection with rubber
566   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves

rings. If a greasy material such as a bitumen-based adhesive is used, tightening the flanges
will cause the rubber ring to extrude into the pipeline and, however much further the
flanges are squeezed together, an imperfect joint will result and be liable to leak. Rubber
rings should be manufactured from high-grade, non-biodegradable natural or synthetic
rubber to a thickness of 3.2-4.8 mm and must lie perfectly flat against the faces of the
flanges without distortion.
   Bolted or screwed gland joints in general are no longer used but worked on the principle
of forcing a rubber ring into an annular space formed between a specially shaped socket
and the plain spigot of the pipe. The rubber ring is forced into the annular space by a cast
iron pressure gland which is drawn by bolts or screwed into the socket. The pipe barrel, the
socket, and the rubber ring must all be scrupulously clean before erection and the pressure
gland must be tightened up uniformly. Joints of this type were developed principally for
gas mains.
   Viking Johnson (or Dresser) couplings are another form of patent rubber ring joint used
for connecting together lengths of pipe which are straight-barrelled, i.e. no socket is used
and no spigot beads are necessary. This joint can be used with ductile iron pipes and is
very widely used with steel pipes. A cross-section of such a joint is shown in Fig. 13.1
where it will be seen that it acts on the same principle as the patent ring type of joint. Slight
angular deviation at joints is possible with these couplings; also, if the coupling is specified
as without a central register it can be moved along the barrel of the pipe, thus permitting
removal of a section of main.
    The Victaulic coupling is used in conjunction with shouldered ends of pipes, thus
holding them together longitudinally. The joint can be unmade and remade without
difficulty. Hence this type of joint is most often used for temporary pipelines laid above
ground. It is also sometimes used to connect meters in pipelines, thus facilitating their
removal.
    The push fit joint includes a specially shaped dual hardness synthetic rubber ring gasket
fitted into the socket of a pipe before the spigot of the next pipe is pushed in. A little
lubricant must be used on the inside of the gasket and on the outside of the pipe spigot
before forcing it into the socket. Complete cleanliness of the socket, gasket, and spigot is
essential. These joints are flexible: BS EN 545 requires a minimum possible angular
deflection of 3.5 ~ up to DN 300, 2.5 ~ for DN 350-600 and 1.5~ for larger sizes. Allowable
deflections for pipes produced in the UK are 5~ up to DN 300 and 4 ~ for larger sizes. To
 allow for movement after laying, deflections at installation should be limited to 50% of the
 figures quoted. These joints are the norm for ductile iron pipes due to their simplicity and
 the ease and speed with which they may be made.


Steel pipes
13.8 Steel pipe manufacture and materials
BS 534 covers steel pipes, joints and specials (bends and other fittings) ranging from 60.3
to 2235 mm outside diameter. BS 534 also covers coating and lining. It applies to pipe to
BS 3601 and dimensions to BS 3600 but pipe to API 5L and other standards can be used.
BS 534 will be superseded by BS EN 10224 which was due to be published near the end of
1999: this standard will cover pipes only, separate standards will be issued for joints and
for coatings and linings. The standards for pipe set out manufacturing tolerances,
chemical composition and minimum values for yield stress and ultimate tensile strength.
                                           13.8 Steel pipe manufacture and materials    567


BS 8010 Section 2.8 covers installation of steel pipes for oil, gas and associated products:
Section 2.2, for water and associated products has not been published: the older CP 2010
Part 2 for steel pipes is not withdrawn.
  BS 3601 covers four principal methods of manufacture:
9   butt welded (B);
9   electric resistance (including induction) welded (ERW);
9   seamless (S);
9   submerged arc welded (SAW).
Outside diameter ranges given in BS 3601 in mm are: (B) 8-50 (nominal); (ERW) 12.7-
508; (S) 12.7-1016 and (SAW) 114.3-2220.
   Steel pipes used for trunk mains are generally SAW. These pipes are fabricated from
steel plate bent to a circular form, typically either (a) by rolling and butt welding the
longitudinal seam; or (b) by 'U-O', first forming a U shape by hydraulic press, then
curving over the straight parts and butt welding the longitudinal seam. Alternatively (c),
they may be continuously produced from a coil Of steel strip bent to a spiral and butt
welded along the spiral seam. Joints between coil ends of spiral welded pipes are known as
skelp end welds. Pipe may also be made by rolling and jointing plate into short 'cans'
which are then joined by butt welding, end to end, to form the required lengths. Lengths
are usually in the range of 9-12 m dependent on manufacture, transport and project
requirements. Weld beads must be machined flush with the pipe surface at pipe ends to
make them suitable for joint couplings. Spigot and socket ends, where shaped, are formed
by die. Weld bead height needs to be limited for coating and lining.
   Butt welded pipes are made from rolled strip with a longitudinal seam furnace butt
welded by a continuous process. Electric resistance welded pipes are made up to about
610 mm outside diameter, also from rolled strip: the longitudinal weld is made by an
electric current (by induction or direct contact) across the edges which are joined under
pressure, without filler metal. Heat treatment at least of the weld zone is usual in sizes
larger than DN 200. ERW pipes now tend to be known as HFI (high frequency induction)
pipes. Seamless pipes are made, up to 508 mm outside diameter, from billet bars or ingots
of hot steel which are pierced and rolled to the required dimensions.
   Inspection typically includes chemical and mechanical material tests, ultrasonic
inspection of plate and welds, radiography of welds and hydraulic pressure tests.
   There are no standard classes for steel pipes: wall thickness above about DN 750 is
designed for handling, for internal pressure, for buckling under external pressure and
internal sub-atmospheric pressure and to limit deflection when buried. External load
carrying capacity in trunk mains is mostly a function of the backfill and compaction
design.
   Steel grade in BS 3601 is designated by ultimate tensile strength in N/mm 2. Grade 430 is
specified for SAW pipe: yield stress depends on thickness and is 275 N/mm 2 for thickness
16 mm and less, 265 N/mm 2 for thickness over 16 mm and up to an including 40 mm and
255 N/ram 2 over 40 ram.
   pr EN 10224 grades steel by yield stress, options are 235, 275 and 355 N/mm 2.
   BS 534 sets out nominal wall thicknesses considered to be the minimum for normal
conditions. Selected data from BS 534 are given below: hydraulic test pressures are the
factory test pressures according to BS 3601, using steel grade 430 and do not necessarily
568   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves

Table 13.2 Steel pipes to BS 534: selected diameters

Outside                                                                           Ring bending
diameter           Thickness     Test pressure         Diameter/thickness         stiffness, EI/D 3
(mm)               (mm)          (bar)                 (D/t)                      (kN/m 2)
 168.3              3.6          70                     47                        183
 323.9              4.0          54                     81                         34
 610                6.3          45                     97                         20
 914                7.1          34                    129                          8
1219                8.0          29                    152                          5
1626               10.0          27                    163                          4
2032               12.5          27                    163                          4
2235               14.2          28                    157                          5



relate to working pressures. Hydraulic test pressures quoted are based on hoop stress of
80% yield or a maximum of 70 bar.
   Special pipes, e.g. bends, tees, etc., can be made to any dimensions required, bends being
made by cutting and welding together mitred sections of pipe.
   Steel grades as designated in the American Petroleum Institute standard API5L are
designated by grade (A and B) and by yield stress in thousands of psi, as follows.

Table 13.3 Steel grades to API 5L

 Grade              A     B      X42     X46     X52      X56     X60       X65    X70      X80
 Yield psi     25000 30000 42000 46000 52000 56000 60000 65000 70000 80000
 stress N/mm 2   207   241   289   317   358   386   413   448   482   551


   Grades less than grade B would not normally be used. Grades up to about X52 can
normally be welded without special heat treatment. Their price is only marginally above
that for grade B or BS 3601 grade 430 and provide good economy where high pressure or
(typically for pipes above ground or installed underwater) significant longitudinal bending
resistance is required.
   The American Waterworks Association (AWWA) manual M ll gives a range of
thicknesses and pressures and steels for diameters up to 4000 mm. Sizes in M11 are
designated by outside diameter below 30 inches (762 mm), otherwise by inside diameter.
   Pipe wall thickness, t (mm) for internal pressure is determined by hoop stress, as follows:

                  pd
           t--
                 2a~re
where p is the internal pressure (N/mm2), d is the external diameter (mm), a is the design or
safety factor, ~r is the minimum yield stress (N/mm2), and e is the joint factor. The design
factor, joint factor and definition of wall thickness depend on the design code.
  Design factors for hoop stress typically range from 0.4 to 0.8; the joint factor is 1.0 for
SAW pipes and certain codes require the negative tolerance to be deducted from wall
                                    13.9 External and internal protection of steel pipe    569


thickness. BS 8010 Section 2.8 quotes a design factor of 0.72 and requires thickness
tolerance (+ 7.5% for BS 3601 SAW pipes) to be added to the design thickness. This can
then be rounded up to the next standard nominal wall thickness. ASME codes B31.4 and
B31.8 quote a basic design factor of 0.72 and state that this includes for thickness
tolerance. For water supply under normal conditions, it is suggested here that the design
factor is taken as 0.5 (as given in AWWA M 11 and the WRc pipes selection manual) and
that no deduction is made for the thickness tolerance.
   Further consideration can be given where particular conditions warrant: for example
the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) code B31.8 quotes design factors
for a variety of laying conditions. Where necessary the analysis can be elaborated to
include ring bending, longitudinal bending, longitudinal stress from temperature changes,
Poisson's ratio effects on buried (and thus restrained) pipe under hoop tension, combined
(equivalent) stresses- and where appropriate, for example for underwater p i p e s - can
include strain based design.



13.9    External and internal protection of steel pipe
External and internal surfaces of pipes and specials are protected against corrosion by a
coating and lining. It is not normally economic in design of water pipelines to provide a
corrosion allowance (although, for comparison, corrosion allowance and corrosion
inhibitors may be adopted in petrochemical practice). Corrosion protection may not
always be carried out at the same place or by steel pipe supplier: pipe out of roundness and
straightness can affect application of coatings and linings and must be specified to match
the process of application of the corrosion protection.
   Principal options for external coating of steel water pipes are:
9   bitumen sheathing;
9   fusion bonded epoxy (fbe);
9   three-layer polyethylene (PE) and
9   paints.
In all cases cleaning and preparation by grit blasting to BS 7079 second quality (or
Swedish Standard Sa 2.5) is a prerequisite.
   Bitumen sheathing is included in BS 534 and consists of a hot applied bitumen with an
inert filler, reinforced if required with a woven glass cloth, to a thickness of 3 mm for small
diameter pipes rising to 6 mm for diameters exceeding 350 mm. Bitumen enamel wrapping
consists of a hot applied bitumen containing a mineral filler with an inner wrapping of
glass tissue and an outer wrapping of bitumen impregnated reinforced glass tissue or
composite glass fibre fabric to the same protection thickness as for bitumen sheathing. All
reinforcement materials are spirally wound onto the pipe with adequate overlaps. The
pipes are painted with emulsion to act as a reflective and non-stick surface: alternatively,
sacrificial galvanised steel sheet may be used for both solar reflection and protection
against damage during transit. Bitumen can biodegrade and as an alternative, coal tar has
been used, particularly for underwater pipelines, but is losing favour in view of health and
safety issues. Both bitumen and coal tar lose volatiles on exposure and crack. Bitumen still
presents a viable option for buried pipelines but has tended to lose out in favour of fbe and
PE coatings. Alternatives should be used for exposed pipelines.
570   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves

   Fusion bonded epoxy has been in use since the early 1970s. The pipe surface is prepared
by grit blasting and by phosphate or chromate pre-treatment. The fbe coating is applied as
a powder which is fused onto the pre-heated pipe surface and cured chemically to form a
layer thickness typically about 450  100 microns thick for pipelines onshore and 650 +
100 microns for pipelines offshore. Fbe coatings generally have excellent resistance to
cathodic disbonding when used on cathodically protected pipelines. Protection at joints is
completed by heat shrink sleeves, tape wrap, by paint or by fusion bonded epoxy.
   Three-layer polyethylene systems have been in use since the early 1980s, more in Europe
than in the USA, and supersede the two-layer system. The three-layer system is more
expensive than fbe but tends t o b e considered cost effective in view of potential damage
during shipping over long distances. The system comprises the following typical
thicknesses:

         fusion bonded epoxy:       150-200 micron;
         copolymer adhesive:        200-350 micron and finally;
         polyethylene:              2.5 mm up to DN 750 and 3.0 mm for larger sizes.

   Total thickness for the three-layer system is thus between about 3 mm up to DN 750
and 3.5 mm for larger sizes. After surface preparation by grit blasting and phosphate or
chromate pre-treatment, the pipe is pre-heated and application of all three components
takes place while the pipe is rotated about its axis and moved forward through a specially
designed booth. Timing is vital and curing takes place before the pipe reaches supporting
rollers. Completion at joints is by heat shrink sleeves or by tape wrap. Heat shrink sleeves
tend to be favoured for the larger pipe diameters.
   Paint options include epoxy and polyurethane and may receive a zinc rich base layer.
Thickness typically is similar to that for fbe, with application by airless spray. Coal tar
epoxy is not generally favoured. Care is required to ensure good quality preparation and
protection at fittings, which tend to be anodic and more prone to corrosion due to the
additional welding and working. Small diameter steel pipes are galvanised. Polypropylene
is used for high temperature applications (not for water supply): other developments
continue, including blends of fbe, adhesive and PE and some manufacturers may also
provide a thin additional coating of concrete for mechanical protection. Cement mortar
external coating is covered by American standards.
   The continuity of the applied protection (other than cement-mortar) is checked with a
'holiday' detector. This comprises passing a scanning electrode in the form of a brush
containing a high voltage electrical charge over the coating and lining; the voltage is set so as
to produce a spark length of 10 mm or double the specified minimum thickness of the
protective material whichever is the greater. Pinholes or breakages are disclosed by an
electrical discharge to the steel of the pipe and this can be arranged to cause a buzzer to sound.
   Internal surfaces of steel pipes can be protected with concrete or cement-mortar
(described later in this chapter), or epoxy. Market forces and perceived quality issues in
the UK currently favour epoxy. Epoxy coatings may be hot applied fbe or airless spray
liquids and high solids systems. Thickness is typically about 0.5 mm and surface
preparation is by grit blasting to a high standard. Bitumen was a popular and successful
option but is no longer used in the UK. A hot applied bitumen with an inert filler was
sprayed or brushed onto the pipe, after first priming it with or without a compatible
priming coat; usual practice was to apply a minimum thickness of 1.5 mm for diameters
up to 300 mm and 6 mm for diameter exceeding 1000 mm.
                                                    13.10 Mortar and concrete linings     571


13.10 Mortar and concrete linings
Steel and ductile iron pipes can be lined with cement-sand mortar or spun concrete and
these form some of the best and most cost effective types of interior protection. The
cement mortar or concrete lining generates a high pH environment which passivates and
prevents corrosion. Cement mortar lining (cml) may be either factory lined by centrifugal
spinning or may be lined in situ by spraying, (orange peel finish) followed, at large
diameters and if required at small diameters, by trowelling to a smooth (washboard)
finish. BS 534 covers both mortar and spun concrete and AWWA C205 and C602 cover
shop applied and in situ mortar, respectively. Concrete lining has been chosen in favour of
cml on some projects because it is thicker (typically 25 mm instead of 12 mm at DN 1400
and larger) and because the aggregate is larger, thus presenting a more robust and durable
surface.
    Difficulties in small diameter mains particularly are that aggressive waters (as indicated
by the Langelier index, see Section 8.40) will dissolve the cement and increase pH, which
may raise water quality problems. The cement lining may be sealed with an approved thin
(150-250 micron) layer of epoxy paint. The cement mortar or concrete provides the
corrosion protection layer by passivation: the seal coat provides a barrier to solution of the
cement mortar by aggressive low pH, low calcium waters. It is not particularly robust.
Where water cannot be dosed to make it less aggressive- for example with lime to raise pH
-or     where dosing cannot be guaranteed due to materials supply or operational
uncertainties, epoxy or other lining should be used.
    Cement mortar linings and concrete linings are thicker than epoxy. They therefore result
in a slight reduction in pipe diameter (or require a slightly larger external diameter to
obtain the same finished internal diameter). Although cement mortar or concrete linings
may, after a while in service and with biofilm addition, attain a hydraulic roughness
similar to epoxy, they will in general tend to have a greater initial hydraulic roughness than
epoxy. These factors may lead to epoxy being a more cost-effective solution if energy costs
are taken into account, dependent on the specific circumstances. The current trend away
from concrete and mortar lining and towards epoxy lining for new steel pipe may be linked
to market forces, and also to the need for material in contact with water used for the
public supply (including raw water mains) to conform with the required approval process.
The approval process is time-consuming and entails continued control of materials
sources, including cement, as in concrete for water retaining structures and linings for
ductile iron pipes. Epoxy lining on its own would be an expensive solution for ductile iron
due to the surface roughness after grit blasting: the pipes are cement mortar lined at all
sizes and in the UK have a seal coat on pipes only of DN 800 and smaller.
    The bare metal pipe is spun at high speed on rollers and the mortar is poured as a slurry
into the interior. The lining builds up by centrifugal force and when the required quantity
has been poured the speed of rotation of the pipe is increased. This causes the mortar to
compact further and surplus water, rising to the surface of the lining, then runs off as the
pipe is tilted very slightly. The mortar mix comprises sand or fine broken rock aggregate
mixed with Portland or sulphate-resisting cement in the ratio of 2.5:1 or 3:1 by weight. The
lining is usually so well compacted after spinning that the pipe can be immediately taken
off the spinning bed and be placed in a damp warm atmosphere for a curing period lasting
21 days. The stipulated lining thickness may vary and some specifications are given in
Tables 13.4(A-C). The mortar lining thickness for steel is generally thicker than for ductile
iron pipes of the same diameter because of the flexibility of steel pipes as compared with
572   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves

Table 13.4A     Recommended thickness of cement-mortar lining (AWWA)

                          AWWA C602: pipelines in place
                          AWWA C205: shop a p p l i e d - as for new steel
                          Type of pipe

Pipe diameter             Old steel          Old and new                     New steel          Tolerance
(mm)                      (mm)               ductile iron (mm)               (mm)               (mm)
100-250                    8                 4.8                              6.3                - 1.6, + 3.2
280-580                   10                 6.4                              8.0                - 1.6, + 3.2
600-900                   11.1               8.0                             10                  - 1.6, + 3.2
 > 900                    14.3               8.0                             13                  - 1.6, + 4.8

Note. For badly deteriorated pipe or abnormal use the purchaser should specify such greater
thickness of lining as engineering judgement dictates.



Table 13.4B     Recommended thickness of cement-mortar and concrete lining- steel pipes (BS 534)

                               Minimum thickness                        Minimum thickness of
Pipe outside diameter          of cement mortar        Tolerance        spun concrete lining      Tolerance
(mm)                           lining (mm)             (mm)             (mm)                      (mm)

< 168.3                         6                      + 2, - 0          6                         + 3, - 0
 193.7-323.9                    6                      + 2, - 0         10                         + 3, - 0
355.6-610                       7                      + 2, - 0         13                         + 3, - 0
660-1219                        9                      + 2, - 0         19                         + 6, - 0
 1422-2235                     12                      + 3, - 0         25                         + 6, - 0

Note. Thicker linings may be specified.


Table 13.4C     Recommended thickness of cement-mortar lining- ductile iron pipes (BS EN 545)

                    BS EN 545                      BS EN 545 UK National annex

Pipe nominal        Nominal           Tolerance    Nominal        Minimum                Individual minimum
diameter (DN)       value (mm)        (mm)         (mm)           arithmetical           (mm)
                                                                  mean value (mm)

 80 (and DN 40      3.5               -1.5         5              3.5                    2.5
 for BS EN 545)
 100-300            3.5               -1.5         5              4.5                    3.5
 350-600            5                 -2           5              4.5                    3.5
 700-1200           6                 -2.5         5              5.5                    4.5
 1400-2000          9                 -3           5              8.0                    7.0

To avoid excessive thicknesses, a minimum clear bore should also be specified.
                                                             13.11 Joints for steel pipes   573


ductile iron pipes. With regard to ductile iron pipes BS EN 545 national annex
recommends that the thicknesses should be as given in the previous standard, BS 4772, for
ductile iron pipes. All fittings associated with mortar lined pipes are also mortar lined, but
this has to be trowelled on. The discontinuity of the lining at joints in steel pipes should
also be filled if the pipe is of large enough diameter to give inside access. Steel pipes which
are not large enough for this should either be jointed using flexible joints or be jointed
externally using welded collar joints: the heat input is unlikely to damage the concrete
lining: the lining will be brought flush with the pipe ends and the pipe ends will butt
together. The collar will be protected internally at the gap and any water in the joint parts
will be largely stagnant, without risk of causing corrosion.


13.11 Joints for steel pipes
The following types of joints are in common use:
(1)   welded sleeve joints (see Figs 13.2a and b);
(2)   butt welded joints;
(3)   Viking Johnson type slip-on couplings (see Fig. 13.1);
(4)   flanged joints (see Fig. 13.2c)
(5)   push fitjoints.
The BS 534 Type 1 taper sleeve joint (Fig. 13.2a) is common in the UK. It permits a small
angular deviation (up to 1~ as long as the joint is detailed so that there is a penetration of
at least four times the pipe wall thickness after deflection. The increased gap around the
outside the pipe requires the weld to be buttered: filler rod can be used. The internal joint
gap should be fairly constant as the mating surfaces are brought together. Pipes of DN 700
and larger should be welded internally and externally. The internal weld is the strength
weld and the outer is a seal weld. The joint can then be tested by pressurising the annular
space between the two welds (usually with nitrogen at a pressure of 200 kPa), which
permits pipe joints to be tested before backfilling the trench. On pipes smaller than DN
700 the weld should be made on the outside only. Consideration needs to be given to
access and the completion and inspection of the internal protection. On pipes DN 600 and
smaller, the alternative of using mechanical or other joints can be considered.
   BS Type 2 collar joints comprise a short sleeve usually in two parts which is slipped
around the pipe end and joined by fillet welding. It is used for jointing small diameter
pipes where internal access is not possible and for jointing closing lengths on larger
diameters. Where access is possible welds should be made on the inside as well and each
side should be air tested.
   The BS 534 Type 3 spherical joint (Fig. 13.2b) was developed to permit deviation
without unduly increasing the size of the external weld and has been found practicable and
more satisfactory than the short sleeve joint because of the smaller welds required. It is
common and successfully used on large diameter pipes overseas and allows larger
deflections than the Type 1 joint, thus allowing gentle curves to be followed without use of
gussetted (lobster back) bends. The design must provide an overlap of at least four times
the pipe wall thickness.
   For butt welded joints the ends of pipes are prepared by forming a 30 ~ bevel on the full
thickness of the pipe wall except for the inner 1.6 mm; the resulting V-groove between
pipes is then filled with weld metal which is finished to stand proud of the external pipe
574   Pipes, pipel&e construction and valves



                                               Tapped hole and plug
                                               for testing joint
                        External                     /
                        weld                 ~           Weld after testing
                             X ~ , . ,T,
                                      ~Uj mZ =~ '=r ' ~ . , / . ~                           //Sheathing
                                    +.,,,:~,. ,. ~ ,     :,~.,.~                                               ,.
                                                                                                                            (a) Welded short sleeve
                    \                                               \                 -
                                                                                                                                joint for steel pipes
               Lining                   Internal weld
             Sheathing and lining made complete after test


                    Cylindrical Hemispherical
                    pipe shell spigot

                                                . Hemispherical                           pipe shell

            iExternal weld
                              _'
                              , 77/"
                                                r st:~ket[~j
                                    "_'&~.-'; ,,',.. I
                                 ~,,,
            ~:"~'"~'"~'~'~'~.~?:~.';~
                                                              --,                                                       i
                                                 :<;.::..::,..:.:.:..:.::,.v<,.::::...'..'..:::.'...~::.-'....;.!~(b) Welded spherical sleeve


            mortar                       [     I       I ~'~'~-_Hemis hp erical radius to spigot socket
            lining                       |     ]       I    ]    contact surface
                                         /~                                    Minimumoverlap

                    High pressure
                    design
                                               ~..{,<-~,%<~%~,~,~.a
                                                 Welds for low
                                                 pressure design
                                                                                                                            (c) Flanged joint for steel pipes
                    welding    ~ " - ~ _ _ , ~ , ' / /




                                                       , . . . . . . . . nmetal ferrule
                                                                        . j Service pipe


                                                                        ~dle strap
                                                                                                                              (d) Service connection
                                                                                                                                  to asbestos cement pipe




                                                                    ~
                                                   Sleeve of asbestos cement
                                                                                                                             Rubber ring
                ~                            Rubber ring                    y///.)'/////////_,~ V / / / ~ / / / / A


                                                                        )_                      ~                   ~         (e) Joints for asbestos
                                                                        1 ..... I1-/                                              corn.n<.,..
                l'---i~'~-t                   Cast iron                 )                        II                 ~Widnes
                ~                             detachable                    ~-///.,/.,H.,.,.-,.,-,~P/.'.,.'H,'H/-'-'~JOr si m n Iex
                        ~,      ~             joint                                                                   joint ~"

Fig. 13.2   (a)-(c) Joints for steel pipes. (d) Service pipe connection to an asbestos cement pipe.
(e) Joint for an asbestos cement pipe.
                                                             13.12 Cathodic protection    575


surface. Butt welding is usually only adopted when the pipe wall thickness is substantial or
when full longitudinal continuity of strength is required - such as in high pressure
applications, or in underwater pipes, or if pipes are to be snaked into the trench.
   Viking Johnson couplings permit slight angular deviation of pipes at joints.
Longitudinal movement is also possible but is restricted to the amount allowed by shear
movement within the rubber. Further movement will drag the rubber over the pipe surface
eventually damaging the joint. Once filled and conveying water, temperature movements
should be small even on an exposed pipeline in tropical climates, so it is possible to use
these couplings, spaced at say two pipe joints (24 m centres) with an anchored joint
between, to avoid the need for special contraction or expansion (bellows or slip) joints.
   The continuity of the lining needs to be completed inside the pipe and this can be done
by entry into the pipe when its diameter exceeds 600 mm, and from outside when its
diameter is smaller. In the latter case a former is pushed into the pipe on a rod and
expanded to form a temporary inside collar at the joint while protection material is
injected through a hole in the coupling, thus filling the annular space between the pipes.
Alternatively a lining train can be used to apply a measured quantity of paint by roller or
spray. The outside coating is completed by heat shrink sleeves or by tape wrap with an
overlap of at least 50%. Alternatively for bitumen sheathed pipes the external protection is
completed by 'flood coating'- putting a mould over the coupling, filling it with bitumen
and allowing it to cool before stripping off the mould.
   Pipes for jointing with couplings must have true end diameters and if it is intended to cut
pipes these must be ordered as 'true diameter throughout', otherwise they will only be
truly circular at their ends. Some difficulty may therefore be experienced when inserting a
branch by couplings into an existing main at a point where its diameter may not be true.


13.12 Cathodic protection
Cathodic protection provides an additional measure of security to cover breakdown and
deficiencies in the external coating. Clays, sulphate-bearing soils, moorland acid waters,
and saline ground-waters are the principal causes of aggressive ground conditions.
   Cathodic protection uses the principal of electrolytic chemical action to protect pipes by
providing the pipeline at intervals with sacrificial anodes or, alternatively, by impressing a
(negative) voltage on the pipeline so that it becomes cathodic with respect to buried anodes
in the medium of the wet soil which acts as a weak electrolyte. Corrosion takes place at the
anode and not at the cathode. Sacrificial anodes are usually made of zinc, magnesium or
aluminium. They are connected electrically to the pipe and cause a weak current to flow in
the right direction since they are 'anodic' with respect to iron. They are buried a few metres
away from the pipeline at 50-100 m intervals and are connected to it by insulated cables. If
impressed current is used a DC negative voltage is applied to the pipeline and the anodes
wired to it can be made of iron as the impressed voltage is sufficient to drive current in the
right direction. Impressed current anodes are silicon iron, titanium and more currently,
mixed metal oxide. Graphite is no longer used. This type of cathodic protection is used
where the soil resistivity or where long stretches (typically more than 5 km) of pipe need
protection since it can provide much higher potential driving forces than the sacrificial
system. The lengths of pipe protected by a given anode must be electrically connected
together. If the pipe joints use rubber rings then each pipe must be electrically connected
across its joints by means of an insulated conductor welded onto two adjacent pipes.
576   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves

    Cathodic protection is not by itself complete protection of a pipeline against corrosion:
it is an additional defence. Also it cannot be used without care where there are many other
services, such as at works areas and urban areas, since it may reduce the effectiveness of
the system by draining current to the other services. It may also increase corrosion of these
services at points where the current picked up is returned to the soil.
    Where a steel pipeline passes parallel to and up to about 50-200 m away from overhead
high voltage lines, stray electric potential may be induced on the pipeline. This will require
the pipeline to be earthed, using either zinc anodes or through diodes which limit the
current flow to one direction and only above a predetermined limit. In addition, care must
be taken to earth the pipeline during construction- not only to prevent current from
welding damaging the pipe coating but also to earth induced currents. Length of pipe
strung above ground should also be limited typically to about 400 m - and a strict safety
regime implemented. Exact precautions need to determined according to circumstances.


13.13 Flexible pipe design
Flexible pipe design principles apply to steel and plastics and to some extent, particularly
in the case of large diameters and large loads, to ductile iron also.
   For steel pipes greater than about DN 750 (or D/t about 120-140, depending on
conditions) the theoretical pipe thickness to meet usual internal pressures is frequently less
than the thickness required to limit deflection under backfill load. To save adding extra
steel thickness for stiffening the pipe against backfill load, the pipe may be laid under
'controlled backfill' conditions which, in practice, means bedding the pipe on a thin layer
of uncompacted sand or onto a preformed circular invert (60 ~ width) in sand or fine gravel
and selecting and carefully compacting the backfill in shallow equal layers either side of
the pipe to achieve a required soil stiffness.
   At large diameters, temporary jacks may be inserted (in steel pipes) to maintain
circularity or pre-deflect the pipe upwards: care needs to be taken to spread the jack load
and not to damage any lining. As backfill is built up, lateral pressure increases deflection
inward and upward; the jacks are therefore removed and as backfill progresses further the
vertical load deflects the pipe downward and outward. Deflection is measured and if it
exceeds the permissible value, the backfill should be removed and replaced to obtain the
necessary circularity. Measurements should be continued periodically after installation
and checked at critical sections before the pipe is filled for testing.
    Deflection of flexible pipes is calculated using the Spangler formula or similar as
 follows:

         AID --   k(eeOl   nt- e s ) / ( 8 S   +   0.061E')
where A = pipe deflection (assuming horizontal and vertical deflections are equal); D =
mean diameter of the pipe; k = a constant, dependent on the angle, between contact
points, over which the trench bed supports the pipe (typically 0.1 for 65 ~ 0.083 for 180~
Pe = soil load per unit area (kN/m2); Ps = surcharge or traffic load per unit area, (kN/
m2); D l = deflection lag factor, dependent on soil type and compaction; S - diametrical
ring bending stiffness, = IO00E(t/D)3/12, (kN/m2), where E = modulus of elasticity of the
pipe wall; E' = soil stiffness (kN/m 2) and 0.061 is derived from assumed (parabolic)
loading over a 100~ lateral support angle.
                                                              13.14 Polyethylene pipes    577


   For granular soils, D 1 is unity. Long term, in clay, the value may be 3 or more. Where
the cover is less than 2.5 rn and the pipeline will be under sustained pressure within a year
of installation, long-term deflection may be reduced by a re-rounding factor DR = 1 -(pi/40),
where Pi is the internal pressure in bar. Diurnal variations in pressure in distribution mains
should be taken into account in deciding the re-rounding factor.
   Tables in various publications and standards, including BS 1295-1 national annex A,
link soil stiffness to soil type, depth of cover and compaction of the fill. Compaction is
quoted either as per cent Proctor (modified Proctor density, M p - which corresponds to
the heavy compaction test to BS 1377) or, for granular materials, to relative density. Soil
stiffness can also be derived from laboratory tests. The overall soil modulus is modified to
take account of the native soil where the native soil modulus is less than 5 MN/m 2 and the
trench width is less than 4.3 times the pipe diameter. AWWA M11 quotes accuracy of
predicted deflections for different soil compaction: it does not cover native soil modulus.
   Ring bending stress is traditionally not addressed in steel pipe design but is included for
in PVC and PE (thermoplastics) pipe design and GRP (thermosetting) takes account of
bending strain. Pipe thickness for plastic pipe is usually expressed as a minimum: thickness
tolerance is not covered.
   Bending stress is given by Orbs = E Df (A/D) (t/D), where E is the flexural modulus of
elasticity of the pipe material and DUis a strain factor, dependent on pipe and soil stiffness
and is given in BS EN 1295-1 and other references. For PVC and PE pipe the sum of
bending stress and hoop stress is required to be less than the design value. The approach is
similar for GRP but using a criterion of strain. Designs for plastics pipes need to take into
account both the initial short-term and the long-term characteristics.
   Deflection limits vary according to pipe material. Deflection limits quoted in AWWA
M11 for steel pipe are as follows:

               Mortar lined and coated                         2% of diameter
               Mortar lined and flexible coated                3% of diameter
               Flexible lined and coated                       5% of diameter

  The deflection limit of 2% frequently quoted can be exceeded where pipes are lined with
cement mortar after installation or for flexible linings. However, if large deflections are to
be permitted then for steel pipes it seems consistent that consideration should be given to a
more detailed analysis, including ring bending stress, but adopting a design factor greater
than the traditional value of 0.5 and taking into account the stress strain characteristics
which differ from those applying to plastics.


Plastic pipes
13.14 Polyethylene pipes
Polyethylene is a thermoplastic and has been widely used for the production of pipes by an
extrusion process for over 40 years. Pipe is produced in the UK up to DN 1000 and is
available from Europe up to DN 1600. PE pipe is specified by nominal (minimum) outside
diameter (OD), by standard dimensional ratio (SDR - the ratio of nominal outside
diameter/minimum wall thickness, typically 11, 17.6 and 26) and by material. Material
classifications in current use are PE 80 and PE 100, where the number refers to the
578   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves

minimum required strength (MRS) in bar (80 bar = 8 N/mm2). The MRS is the pipe wall
burst stress at 20~ at 50 years, extrapolated from shorter duration tests.
   Materials terminology is confusing: current trend is to refer to grade (PE 80 or PE 100).
PE 80 includes both medium density polyethylene (MDPE) and high density polyethylene
(HDPE). MDPE was brought into service in the UK in the 1980s to replace low density
polyethylene (LDPE) and high density polyethylene (HDPE). To take account of the risk
of crack propagation (RCP) reported for gas pipes, PE 80 pipes DN 250 and larger were
derated by about 20% and, above DN 315, were further derated for pipes containing more
than 10% free air. This derating has been reviewed in the light of recent research: derating
for fatigue is no longer considered necessary for modern PE 80 pipes which meet the stress
crack requirements of WISs (Water Industry Standards) 4-32-03,-09 a n d - 1 3 but is
required for pipes which do not meet these high toughness requirements.
   PE 100 has been produced since 1990 and is also known as high performance
polyethylene (HPPE). Compared with PE 80 it has greater resistance to and is not derated
for RCP. The material price is more than for PE 80 but its greater strength allows for
higher pressures or thinner walls and hence provides economy under certain conditions.
   Maximum operating pressures are controlled by the sum of hoop stress and ring
bending stress which, as given in EN ISO 12162 and proposed in prEN 12201, is limited to
0.8 times MRS. Maximum operating pressure (PMA) includes surge. Recommendations
were that the range of surge pressure should be limited to half the maximum operating
pressure. However, because of the low wave speed in the PE pipe wall, surge pressures in
PE pipes are typically about 25% of those in steel for the same event. Recent research
shows that PE pipes will sustain surge pressures at least twice their static rating (the actual
amount depending on the material and increasing with rate of strain). Attention must be
given to derating for operating temperatures above 20~
   Long-term deflection is allowed up to 6% of the diameter. However, this will be
calculated taking into account creep in the soil and using long-term pipe stiffness- which
may be one-sixth of the initial stiffness.
   Advantages of PE pipes are that they are light and easy to handle, flexible but strong
and resistant to cracking, do not corrode, are chemically resistant, have a low frictional
resistance to water and can easily be cut to length. SDR 11 and 17.6 pipes can be bent
safely to 25 times OD, increasing to 35 times in cold weather and reducing to lower values
in warm weather. For SDR 26 and 33 pipes these radii need to be 50% greater. Small
diameter pipe can be supplied in coils and straight lengths can be joined above ground and
snaked into narrow non-man-entry trenches. Disadvantages are that the strength of pipes,
defined as their ability to withstand hoop stress, decreases with time and reduces with
increasing temperature. They are also liable to UV degradation if exposed overlong to
sunlight. In the UK blue PE (for water supply) can be stored above ground for up to a
year: for longer periods they should be covered. Under certain conditions they may be
degraded or may be slightly permeable (and therefore give rise to taste problems) due to
oils, organic solvents and by strong concentrations of halogens or acids. CP312 Part 1
gives a list of chemicals and suitability with plastics. Where soil is polluted by
hydrocarbons, typically in former gas works sites, fuel stations, scrap yards and other
industrial areas, it may be enough to use imported backfill and impermeable membranes:
alternatively other measures or other pipe materials may be needed. The coefficient of
linear expansion of PE 80 is about 1.5 x 10-4 , which is more than ten times greater than
 for steel and is equivalent to about 9 mm for 10~ in a 6-m pipe length. PE pipes are not
                                                                  13.14 Polyethylene pipes      579


traceable underground with metal detectors and do not transmit leak noises like metal
pipes. BS 5336, BS 6437, BS 6572 and BS 6730 set out general requirements, respectively,
for thermoplastic pipes, polyethylene pipes, and for blue (below ground) and black (above
ground) polyethylene pipes up to 63 mm OD. Water Industry Standards WIS 4-32-03,
-08, - 0 9 , - 1 3 , - 1 4 a n d - 1 5 specify requirements for polyethylene pipe and for joints and
fittings from 90 to 1000 mm OD. DIN standards also cover polyethylene pipes and fittings
and prEN 12201 is in preparation. For distribution mains PE pipes are supplied in 6 or
 12 m straight lengths; their flexibility makes the use of small angle bends largely
unnecessary.
   PE pipes can be jointed mechanically or with push fit joints (with longitudinal strength)
but are more usually jointed by butt fusion or electrofusion which form a continuous
string and do not need thrust blocks. Butt fusion requires a purpose-designed powered
machine in which the prepared and cleaned pipe ends are clamped and held under
longitudinal pressure against a thermostatically controlled heated plate: after a given
heating time the ends are pulled back, the plate is removed, and the two melted ends of the
pipe are brought together under longitudinal pressure to fuse and cool. Growth of the
bead of melted material is observed during heating: after jointing the external bead is
removed, numbered with the joint and twisted at several positions. Any split in the bead
requires the joint to be cut out and made again; and a further defect requires investigation
and cleaning of the equipment and new trial joints before production continues again.
Care is required to put in place good quality assurance and quality control procedures,
with tracking to monitor performance of individual and gang workmanship. Experienced
and disciplined inspection is essential. Internal weld beads can be removed if required.
Electrofusion joints are used at fittings and comprise a spigot and socket with in-built
electrical heating coils which are energised to locally melt and fuse the fitting and pipe
together. Power supply can be by mains or generator. Equipment can be provided to read
a bar code fixed to the fitting which contains information to control the weld. The
equipment can then store weld data for downloading onto a computer database for
traceability and quality assurance. Flow of melt material from indicator holes in the fitting
gives visual evidence of weld completion.
   Pressure testing must take into account the viscoelastic properties of the pipe material.
Traditional pressure test techniques are not suitable due to creep and stress relaxation:
pressure in a closed PE pipe will fall with time even when the pipe is leak flee. The
accepted method is to fill the pipe with water, raise the pressure, measure the pressure
decay with time, derive decay parameters using a 'three-point analysis' (more points are
strongly suggested) and compare with a range of standard values according to pipe
restraint. The pipe must be sensibly free of air and not above 30~ Pressure should be
released slowly. If a retest is required, a rest time, typically of about 5 times the previous
test duration, must be allowed beforehand for the pipeline to recover from the previous
conditions.
   Recommended test pressures are:
9   for systems rated up to 10 bar, 1.5 times rated pressure;
9   for 12 and 16 bar systems, 1.5 times working pressure.
The test pressure should not exceed 1.5 times the maximum rated pressure of the lowest
rated component.
580    Pipes, pipeline construction and valves


13.15 Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipes
Three types of PVC pipes available in the UK are:
9     PVC-U: unplasticised PVC;
9     MOPVC: molecular-orientated PVC; and
9     PVC-A: PVC with added impact modifiers- also known as PVC-M (modified PVC).
MOPVC is first formed at about half the diameter and double the final thickness and is
then heated and expanded to the final diameter. The result increases the strength
particularly in the hoop direction and allows wall thicknesses slightly more than half of
those for PVC-U. It also increases significantly the resistance to failure from cyclic
loading. MOPVC pipes are about 30% of the stiffness of PVC-U pipes due to their
reduced thickness but taking into account their greater modulus. PVC-A is an alloy of
PVC-U, polyethylene (PE), and acrylics: wall thicknesses are about 80% of those for
PVC-U.
  A number of failures of early PVC-U pipes led to lack of confidence in their use. This is
now understood to result from local bending stress from point loads, typically uneven
bedding. Developments have now led to renewed confidence but
(a) pipe should be derated for temperatures above 20~
(b) due to notch sensitivity, pipe with significant internal or external scratches should be
    rejected;
(c) care is required with installation;
(d) care is required during tapping and not to overtighten saddles; and
(e) derating is required, for repeated cyclic (fatigue) loads (distinct from diurnal
    variations), particularly for pumping mains.
PVC pipes are classified by nominal outside diameter. PVC-U pipes are available in the
UK up to DN 630 and are supplied in 6 m lengths with spigot and socket rubber ring push
fit joints. Solvent joints have not been used since the mid-1980s and are no longer
permitted for underground use (primarily due to problems arising from movement during
bedding and backfilling): they are permitted for above ground use. Classes C, D, and E (9,
12 and 15 bar operating pressures, respectively) are stipulated in BS 3505. Water Industry
Standard WIS 4-31-06 covers PVC-U pipe for 8 bar and 12 bar operating pressures and
has generally superseded BS 3505 for water supply. Pr EN 1452-2 will replace BS 3505 and
WIS 4-31-06. WIS 4-31--08 covers MOPVC pipe from DN 110 to 400: sizes are only
available from DN 110 to DN 200 at 12.5 bar rating and DN 250 and 315 at 16 bar rating.
There is no national standard for PVC-M pipe: sizes are available from DN 110 to 630 at
 10 and 16 bar ratings.
   The pipes are suitable for use in hot climates but attention should be paid to derating for
temperature above 20~ Typical PVC-U pipe material has a relative density of 1.4 and a
softening point of about 80~ The coefficient of linear expansion is about 6  10-5 per ~
which is more than five times the value for steel.
   Wall thickness for PVC-U is based on an allowable design stress of 12.5 N/mm 2, which
compares with a minimum required bursting stress of 26 N/mm 2 at 50 years, as
extrapolated from shorter term tests. The design stresses for MOPVC and typically for
PVC-M are 22.5 and 18 N/mm 2, respectively. Full structural design would not normally
be needed for DN 315 and smaller.
                                                 13.16 Glass reinforced plastics (GRP)       581


   Maximum operating pressures are controlled by the sum of hoop stress and ring
bending stress which should not exceed the design stress. Maximum operating pressure
includes surge. Recommendations were that the range of surge pressure should be limited
to half the maximum operating pressure: however, because the wave speed in the pipe wall
is lower, surge pressures in PVC pipes are less (typically 30% less) than those in steel for
the same event. Recent research shows that PVC pipes will sustain surge pressures about
twice their static rating (about 1.8 times for PVC-A and 2.2 times for MOPVC and PVC-
U, the actual amount increasing with rate of strain). Care should be taken for pumping
mains larger than DN315 and fracture toughness tests should be specified as set out in
pr EN 1452.
   The main advantage offered by PVC is its resistance to corrosion, hence its use for
chemical transfer lines in water treatment works. It is not suitable for use in ground
contaminated or likely to be contaminated by detergents or solvents or from oil storage
areas. It is light in weight, flexible, and has easily made joints. Small size pipe can be joined
above ground and snaked into narrow non-man-entry trenches. Care should be taken
when handling pipe at temperatures below freezing due to reduced impact resistance.
   Fittings can be made in PVC-U or metal, usually ductile iron. PVC-U pipes are
degraded by ultraviolet light, the effect increasing with temperature so that the pipes must
not be exposed to sunlight in hot climates for more than a day or two. In the UK,
MOPVC, PVC-U and PVC-A can be stored above ground for up to a year: for longer
periods they should be covered.


13.16 Glass reinforced plastics (GRP)
GRP pipes are lightweight and corrosion resistant and are made from a polyester resin,
glass fibre reinforcement and usually a filler of silica sand. Pipes have been in use,
primarily for trunk mains, since 1970. The sand increases the wall thickness and therefore
the rigidity of pipes which can be an advantage for laying purposes. By adjusting the
amount of glass fibre and the wall thickness, the pressure rating and stiffness can be varied
independently, unlike other flexible pipes. GRP is thermosetting (sets irreversibly under
heat) as opposed to thermoplastic (PE and PVC, which melt on heating).
   Pipes may comprise layers of different resins and different quantities and qualities of
glass through the pipe wall: typically using resin rich and corrosion resistant qualities for
the surface layers. Where different resins are used, the inner surface layer comprises a more
flexible and chemically-resistant resin, e.g. bisphenol, and the inner and outer layer is a
cheaper, stronger resin, e.g. isophthalic or orthophthalic. Several formulations are used,
different for each resin supplier and maybe peculiar to each pipe manufacturer. Care is
required to specify and ensure that the resins are suitable for encasement in concrete, if
required: alternatively fittings may be made of ductile iron or steel. Materials and the
process must be suitable for potable water.
   Pipes can be made by the Hobas centrifugal casting process or may be filament wound
on a mandrel. Most pipes in the UK are made by the Hobas process in which metered
weights of liquid resin plus filler and random orientated chopped glass strand are fed into
a rotating mould. This produces a dense pipe wall with similar characteristics in the hoop
and longitudinal direction- although fibre orientation can be adjusted if required to
increase tensile capacity in a particular direction. The constant outside diameter allows
pipes to be cut and joined at any position.
582   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves


    Filament wound pipes in the UK are made in discrete lengths on a rotating mandrel.
For reasons of production economy, this arguably allows more choice in design of the pipe
wall but may require more glass fibre to retain (fluid) material as the mandrel rotates. The
Drostholm process comprises a cantilevered mandrel wrapped by a continuous steel strip
which advances helically around and along the mandrel, providing a continuous rotating
surface before returning up the inside of the mandrel and commencing the helix again.
Pipe materials are built up on this surface, being added sequentially along the pipe as the
helix advances. Material is heated so that the pipe cures on the mandrel and can be cut
into discrete lengths shortly after it leaves the mandrel. The Drostholm process is not used
in the UK but pipe made by this process has been used on some major projects.
    There is less experience with long, large diameter high pressure trunk pipelines in GRP
than in other materials. Manufacture is a complicated process which must come under
skilled control and should preferably be automated. Potential problems can arise in the
form of delamination and cracking due to imperfect manufacture and from strain
corrosion if pipes are unduly stressed by deflection. Inspection using ultrasonic techniques
is possible and should be adopted where there is concern. Pipes must be laid under strictly
controlled backfill conditions to prevent unacceptable distortion of the pipe wall or
b e n d i n g - and must be designed for both for short-term and long-term conditions and
typically using 50-year pipe characteristics, extrapolated from shorter duration tests.
    In the UK pipes are available from DN 300 to 2500 for pressures up to 25 bar. Pressure
rating and stiffness can be tailored independently to suit project specific requirements-
which benefits economy. The pipes are flexible and typically are designed to BS 5480 and
installed to BS 8010 Section 2.5. BS 5480 covers stiffness classes from 1250 to 20 000 N/m 2
and pipes in the range DN 100-4000. Stiffness should not be less than 5000 N/m 2 and
typically is not more than 10 000 N/m 2. Lengths preferred in the BS are 3 and 6 rn but
lengths up to 18 m are produced.
    Joints generally are the flexible push fit spigot and socket or collar type. Alternatives are
resin adhesive or flanges: screw threads are possible. Deflection limits for push fit joints
are at least 3~ for DN 500 and less, 2~         DN 500-800, 1~ for DN 900-1700 and 0.5 ~ for
DN 1800 and greater. Actual values at installation should not exceed half these values.
Where required, rope can be threaded circumferentially into a pre-formed groove in push
fit joints to lock and provide tensile strength across the joint, for anchorage and for
installation under water.
    Fittings can be made from GRP pipe which is cut and laminated with glass fibre across
 the joint both inside and outside. Any bend angle can be supplied as well as multiple
 fittings as a one piece u n i t - for example a duckfoot bend and integral bellmouth.
 Alternatively change pieces and metal fittings are used. Ductile iron fittings are compatible
 with centrifugally cast pipes up to and including DN 600.
    The factory test pressure is 1.5 times their pressure rating.
    GRP has a key advantage for carrying aggressive waters, or for laying in exceptionally
 aggressive ground conditions where both iron and concrete pipes would be severely
 attacked. Care is nevertheless required in selecting the resin and glass type to suit the fluid
 carried, ground conditions and any concrete surround.
    A balance has to be drawn between resins with the best chemical resistance, such as
 vinyl ester, but which may be brittle and crack due to deflection in service- and those with
 less chemical resistance but better physical flexibility. Whilst it is possible to specify a
 'recipe', a better option may be to specify performance and leave resin choice to
                                                                       13.17 Pre-stressed concrete pressure pipes        583


manufacturer, who will have links to particular resin suppliers and will tailor resin
according to pipe manufacturing process.


Concrete pipes
13.17 Pre-stressed concrete pressure pipes
Pre-stressed concrete pressure pipes are covered by BS EN 639 and BS EN 642:
installation is covered BS 8010 Section 2.4. The nominal size range is from DN 200 to 4000
and is the design internal diameter. American Standards AWWA C301-92 and C304-92
also cover large diameters and recent designs for North Africa are typically DN 4000 up to
20 bar and DN 3600 up to 26 bar. Design limits are restricted in principle only by material
properties and capability of the structural section. Pipes are made by tensioning high
tensile wire wound spirally around a cylindrical core. This core may consist either of
concrete which is pre-stressed longitudinally or of a thin steel cylinder which has a thick
spun concrete lining to the interior as shown in Fig. 13.3. For large diameter pre-stressed
concrete pipes the core is cast vertically around the inside and outside of the steel cylinder.
Pipes with steel cylinders in the core are called 'pre-stressed concrete cylinder pipes', the
others with longitudinal pre-stressing are termed 'non-cylinder'. When the wires have been
wound on to the core, stressed, and anchored, a relatively thin but dense cement rich
mortar coating (20 mm minimum) is applied externally to the pipe over the pre-stressing
wires. This coating is applied pneumatically or by machine at high velocity in even layers
as the pipe is rotated, resulting in a hard and very dense mortar coating. This mortar
coating provides cover to the pre-stress wires ensuring a high performance mechanical and
corrosion protection.
   The chief advantage of pre-stressed concrete pressure pipes is that they can offer a cost
advantage over other pipes, particularly for large diameter and higher pressures. Pre-
stressed pipes can be made to withstand high pressures simply by increasing the number of



                                                  Mild steel
                            Cement mortar grout socket
                            or bitumen, poured reinforcement
                            after laying            / Metallized Mild steel cylinder
                HTS wires for       /             /    steel socket       /
                circumferential     /           /      ring /            / Coating
                prestressing ~ /              /            /      . ~ ~ / thickness


                ............   .__..~_,_ . ~ , X / / ; > M / A ~ , ~        ...   " '   0:.   ~   '! ~   .~_; i ~ , ,,




                 -"".:i:
                     ...:.                                                :
                   \               Meta lized \                       Cement mortar           I        I
                Spun concrete core steel sptgot \                     or mastic f'll'lna     /m,,~is,,=lhnr=
                                              ring               \    if r.... =.^.1        / ,,,,,,, .........
                                                                          =Hu,,=u          / ot pipe
                                                             Rubber gasket          Core wall
                                                                                    thickness

Fig. 13.3 Pre-stressed concrete pipe, with metal cylindrical core.
584   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves


turns of pre-stressing wire per unit run of pipe or by doubling up the layer of pre-stressing
wire. A second advantage of pre-stressed concrete pressure pipes is that they are proof
against certain corrosive conditions that would attack iron and steel, although they may
need special protection if the groundwater is high in sulphates and chlorides or otherwise
aggressive to concrete. In very aggressive cases the pipes may need to be cathodically
protected. This would involve the provision of electrical continuity to the pre-stressing
wires, the steel cylinder and joint rings at each end of the pipe so that these can be bonded
together electrically after the pipe is laid. Alternatively, or in addition, the pipes can be
coated with urethane, coal tar enamel, or coal tar epoxy. The pipes can also be made using
sulphate-resisting cement. The pipes are used in the marine environment where buried and
permanently submerged. Attention is needed to the pre-stressing steel quality- and in the
tidal and surf zone where the water level varies and there is a good oxygen supply, special
attention is necessary and needs to be pursued according to detailed circumstances.
   The pre-stressed pipe steel joint rings provide a high performance O-ring seal allowing
joint rotations of up to 0.9 ~ in any direction at each joint while maintaining water
tightness. Deep joints are also available which can accommodate up to 1.4~ of rotation at
any joint. Full bevel and half bevel joints which allow several degrees of deflection can be
built into standard sections of pipe, enabling pre-stressed concrete pipes to deal with the
severe changes of grade and alignment (up to about 5~ before having to use pre-formed
bends. Joints can be welded if required and will then carry longitudinal force.
   The pipes are rigid thus providing a reasonable degree of resistance against rough
handling and poor backfilling techniques.
   There are some disadvantages to pre-stressed concrete pressure pipes. In the larger
diameters the pipes are very heavy and difficulty will occur in aligning them in very soft
ground unless they are placed on a prepared bed of granular material of adequate
thickness to prevent uneven settlement. Connections can be made after the pipeline has
 been laid and while the pipe is in operation although to avoid shutdown, tees have to be
 incorporated in the line as it is laid.
   Under normal operating conditions (up to the design operating pressures and external
 loads) cracking of the mortar coating will not occur. Cracking of the mortar coating may
 occur if the design operating conditions are accidentally exceeded through pipeline
 operational errors. However the elastic behaviour of prestressed concrete pipe is such that
 the cracks will close up after the overpressure or overloads have been corrected and the
 pipeline has returned to its normal operating condition. It should be noted that the mortar
 coating cannot be pre-stressed directly. However because the manufacturing process
 requires the coating to be applied immediately after the pre-stressing operation the mortar
 coating does receive some compressive strain as the concrete core continues to shrink after
 pre-stressing, taking the freshly applied mortar coating, which has been mechanically
 anchored by the pre-stressing wires, with it. This feature together with a feature known as
 tensile softening allows the mortar coating to take much more strain than the standard
 calculated plain strain before cracking. If pre-stressed concrete pipes are to be tested for
 long durations (say 24 hours), at a pressure greater than the design operating pressure,
 then the pipe must be designed accordingly: that is, the sustained test pressure should be
 considered as the design pressure. This would allow the pipe to be tested to the required
 pressures and for the specified duration without overstressing the pipe and unnecessarily
 subjecting the mortar coating to cracks.
                                              13.18 Reinforced concrete cylinder pipes   585


   The works hydrostatic proof pressure is the design working pressure plus surge (MDP)
or 1.5 times the design working pressure (1.5 times PFA), whichever is the greater. Works
hydrostatic proof pressure is required to be applied for at least one minute.
   Joints for prestressed concrete pressure pipes are usually of the socket and spigot O-ring
push fit type. The socket is normally mortared up afterwards and the joint then becomes
rigid. Where ground conditions are known to cause differential settlement the joints may
be filled with a bitumen mastic which provides the necessary protection while allowing
joint rotation to occur.


13.18 Reinforced concrete cylinder pipes
 Reinforced concrete cylinder pipes are similar to pre-stressed concrete pipes, except that
 there is no pre-stress and instead of using high tensile steel wire for circumferential
 reinforcement, mild steel rod is used. Size range is from 250 to 4000 mm internal diameter:
corresponding wall thicknesses are 78 to 320 mm, giving external diameters from 406 to
4640 ram. Effective lengths in the UK are about 6 m up to DN 2100, reducing to 2 m at
DN 4000 and are available up to 10 m from DN 400 to 1000. Up to DN 1000 in the UK
the reinforcing rod is wound spirally under low tension on to a rotating metal cylinder,
being welded to the cylinder at both ends. The reinforced cylinder is then covered
internally and externally with concrete, the internal lining being spun on and the external
coating being applied by impact and smoothed in layers. At larger sizes the pipe is cast
vertically (wet mix) using a pre-formed spot welded reinforcement cage with either one or
two layers of reinforcement according to design requirements. In the design of the pipe
 both the steel cylinder and the reinforcement are assumed to resist hoop tension stresses.
 The principal advantages of reinforced concrete cylinder pipes are as follows: (1) they can
 be designed for relatively high heads, (2) they require less sophisticated manufacturing
 techniques than do pre-stressed concrete pipes, (3) the concrete acts as a good protection
 to the steel and so permits some saving over the amount of steel that would be used in
equivalent steel pipes, (4) the pipes are rigid thus providing a reasonable degree of
resistance against rough handling and poor backfilling techniques. They can be used in the
marine environment: care is needed in the tidal and surf zone. Disadvantages are as
mentioned for pre-stressed concrete pipes. Some cracking is inherent as in any concrete
structure. Cracks in reinforced concrete cylinder pipes caused by operational overload
may not close up in the same way as for pre-stressed concrete pipes as the concrete does
not have the same opportunity to recover after being subjected to large strains. Some
degree of shrinkage cracking is normal after manufacture and can be accepted typically up
to 1 mm in surfaces which will be continually wet after installation (internal surfaces and
surfaces constantly below water level) as they will close after wetting and seal by the
process of autogenous healing. Reinforcement size and spacing are designed to limit
structural crack widths under load, typically to 0.3 ram, as in water retaining, maritime
and other codes. Joints generally are welded which can carry longitudinal thrusts: the
joints are rigid and the pipes require careful bedding to limit differential movement.
Rubber ring push fit joints and other joints can be made if required. Fittings are coated
internally and externally with reinforced concrete.
   BS EN 639 covers reinforced concrete pipes and BS EN 641 covers reinforced concrete
cylinder pipes. Reinforced concrete non-cylinder pipes are produced in the UK but are
used for gravity, drainage, flow.
586   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves


   AWWA standard C300 addresses reinforced concrete cylinder pipes that are not pre-
stressed or pre-tensioned. It covers pipe from DN 760 to DN 3600, typically with wall
thicknesses between 89 and 305 mm (3.5-12 inches). This type of pipe has a relatively thick
welded cylinder towards the inside and a layer of bar reinforcement towards the outside
separated by concrete which renders the pipe rigid.
   AWWA standard C303 covers reinforced concrete cylinder pre-tensioned pipes. The
pipe is reinforced with a steel cylinder that is helically wrapped with mild steel bar
reinforcement (using moderate tension in the bar), in sizes ranging from DN 250 to DN
1520 (10-60 inches) inclusive and for working pressures up to 27 bar. The lining thickness
is 13 mm minimum for DN 250-410 and 19 mm minimum for DN 460-1520. The cement
mortar coating thickness is 19 mm over the reinforcing bar or 25 mm over the cylinder,
whichever results in the greater thickness of coating. Compared with reinforced concrete
cylinder pipes, they have thicker steel shells and thinner concrete and are semi rigid. They
are not used in the UK.


13.19 Asbestos cement pipes
Asbestos cement pipes are made of Portland cement and asbestos fibre mixed into a slurry
and deposited layer upon layer onto a cylindrical mandrel. When the required thickness
has been built up, pipes are steam or water cured, cleaned, the ends turned down to an
accurate diameter for some 150 mm, and then usually dipped into cold bitumen. Although
they have been in use for over 50 years and continue to be produced in some countries, the
danger to health posed by the handling of asbestos in their manufacture and on site,
particularly due to the risks of inhaling asbestos dust during cutting and handling pipes,
has resulted in cessation of production in many countries. There is however no evidence
that their use for conveyance of drinking water presents a danger to health.
   UK standards warn against the hazards (asbestosis, lung cancer and mesothelioma) of
breathing asbestos dust and refer to prohibitions on the supply of products containing
amosite (brown asbestos) and crocidolite (blue asbestos). AC pipes made in the UK since
 1982 are said to contain only chrysotile (white asbestos). Production of AC pipes in the
UK ceased in 1986. BS EN 512 applies to two types: AT (Asbestos Technology),
containing chrysotile asbestos and NT (Non-asbestos Technology) containing fibres other
than asbestos.
   Asbestos cement pipes have the advantages that they can often be produced from local
resources more cheaply than other types of pipe, especially in countries which have to
import steel or iron. They are also resistant to internal and external corrosion except in the
case where sulphated soils occur which attack the cement of the pipe unless it is protected
with bitumen. The principal disadvantage of asbestos cement pipes is that they are brittle;
hence they need careful handling in transit, their bedding and backfill must comprise soft
material containing no large stones, and they should preferably not be laid beneath roads
subject to vibration from heavy traffic unless surrounded by concrete. Because a screw
 thread tapped into asbestos cement is fragile, a service pipe connection is made using a
metal saddle clamped onto the pipe which is drilled and tapped for the insertion of a
 service pipe ferrule (see Fig. 13.2d). Ferrules tapped directly into a main without the use of
 a saddle, or the use of unsuitable saddles which corrode, are frequent causes of leakage.
    BS EN 512 and BS 8010 Section 2.3 give standards for fibre cement pipes up to DN
 2500. Pipes up to DN 1000 are classified according to nominal pressure up to 20 bar.
                                                                 13.20 Choice of pipes    587


Preferred classes are 4, 6, 10 and 16 bar but pipe classes greater than 20 bar can be supplied
if required. The required nominal pressure rating is decided in relation to hydraulic and
operating conditions and external load. Pipes exceeding DN 1000 are designed to suit
particular requirements of the pipeline. Tests include works pressure test, burst tests,
crushing strength, beam bending strength (pipes DN 150 and smaller) and joint
performance (including deflection and shear). The works test pressure (PT) is specified
as double the nominal pressure up to DN 500 and 1.67 times the nominal pressure for
larger sizes. Works test pressure duration is 30 seconds, or if the test pressure is increased
by 10%, 10 seconds. BS 8010 Section 2.3 states that the design pressure (PFA) should be
no more than half the works test pressure (PT) and that the maximum pressure with surge
(PMA) should not exceed 60% of PT. Sizes for water supply are commonly DN 100-900
for working pressures of 75,. 100 and 125 m. Nominal lengths are typically up to 5 m for
DN 300 and smaller and up to 6 m for larger sizes. Although some fittings are asbestos
cement, common practice is to use steel or standard ductile iron fittings with spigots to
match the class of pipe used. Asbestos cement pipes and fittings are all plain ended and
hence are jointed using collars of asbestos cement or by use of Viking Johnson or similar
couplings (see Fig. 13.2e). Great care is needed to ensure that O-ring joints have no twist in
them when placed, otherwise the joint will leak. A leak under pressure at a joint may in
time cut right through the pipe wall. A gap must be left between the ends of pipes to allow
for deflection and, where appropriate, thermal movement.


Pipeline construction
13.20 Choice of pipes
Principal factors affecting choice of material are technical considerations, price, local
experience and skills, ground conditions, preference and standardisation. Only an
indication can be given here of general patterns in the choice of pipes.
    For new service pipes (DN 50 and less) in the UK, over 99% of material now used is
MDPE. The remainder tend to be copper (for ground conditions).
    For the smaller pipe sizes in water distribution systems (DN 51-300), in the UK over
80% of new pipes are plastic (about 10% PE 100, 50% PE 80 and over 20% PVC-U and
MOPVC) and over 15% ductile iron. Plastic pipes offer cost advantages at small diameters
a n d - as they can be joined above ground to form continuous lengths which can be snaked
into narrow trenches - they also offer advantages of speed and consequently less social
and environmental impact during construction. This advantage disappears with increasing
diameter and pressure class.
   For the middle range of pipe sizes used in water distribution systems (DN 350-800)
ductile iron is most widely used because of stiffness, strength, toughness and durability in
many kinds of ground. In addition a complete range of compatible, standard dimensioned
ductile iron fittings and valves are available to make up a homogeneous pipeline, which
simplifies both the design and construction processes. Service pipe connections can also be
tapped directly on to the main, under pressure if necessary. Almost any other pipe type can
be used as an alternative. Asbestos cement pipes in some countries form the main
alternative to ductile iron pipes, their advantages being that they are usually cheaper
(especially if ductile iron must be imported). However, asbestos cement pipes are more
liable to breakage problems than are ductile iron pipes, both in transport and when laid,
fittings must be mainly of ductile iron, and gunmetal or cast iron saddles have to be
588   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves

strapped to the pipes before service pipe connections can be made. Deterioration of these
saddles can bring about severe leakage problems. Asbestos cement pipes have now been
phased out of production in many countries.
   For trunk mains and large diameter pipes no general rules of choice can be laid down
since steel, ductile iron, pre-stressed concrete, concrete cylinder, and GRP pipes may each
be used in any particular case according to circumstances applying. Steel is predominantly
used for trunk mains or high pressure mains, the welded joints offering a distinct
advantage in the latter case. Steel pipes are also particularly useful in congested and urban
areas where welded joints provide longitudinal strength and avoid the need for large (or
any) thrust blocks. 5 Steel pipes do not normally require rocker pipes at junctions with
chambers and minor structures but may be required to accommodate major settlement
where temporary excavation has to be backfilled at large structures. Anchorage points are
nevertheless required at terminations and at connections to chambers where flexible
couplings will be installed at valves. Alternatively, the pipeline may be tied across flexible
joints to provide longitudinal continuity of strength: the pipeline can then in principle be
allowed to move longitudinally within the chamber and need not be anchored into the
chamber walls: leakage of groundwater into the chamber would have to be addressed but
would not normally be an issue in dry conditions. To appreciate the positioning and design
of joints and anchorages the pipeline can be considered as a potential mechanism limited
only by the pipe structure, friction and soil stiffness. Ductile iron pipes in the largest
diameters tend only to be used instead of steel if their price is competitive or if it is
expected that there will be difficulty in getting the skilled welders for steel pipes. The
alternatives of pre-stressed concrete, concrete cylinder, or GRP pipes tend to be used
because of circumstances such as local preference and practice, price competitiveness, tied
funding, in-country manufacture as opposed to importing, aggressive ground conditions
 or aggressive water to be conveyed, or (in the case of concrete pipes only) where a greater
 margin of safety is required against rough handling and backfilling. GRP pipes have the
 principal advantage that they are not attacked by ground conditions or by waters, such as
 desalinated water, which are severely aggressive to both iron and concrete.


13.21 Laying of pipes
Strict control needs to be exercised over the laying of pipes because of the high capital
cost of pipelines and their swift deterioration if not properly laid. In this section the
key factors to which attention should be paid to produce a well laid pipeline will be
considered.
   Typically a 'working width' for construction is defined in the contract documents, to
allow space for access, pipe stringing and separate stockpiles for topsoil and excavated
spoil. In addition space will be required for pipe storage and office and support facilities.
The pipe 'easement' as finally granted relates to the pipe as laid and will set out rights for
access and will limit subsequent construction and other works. A 'wayleave' is an
agreement similar in nature but less specific than an easement, granted by the landowner,
permitting the pipeline owner to carry out the works.
   Care should be taken to ensure that pipe supports on vehicles transporting pipes are
adequate to prevent damage to the external coating (especially in hot climates where the
coating may soften) and that flexible pipes particularly those with concrete or cement
mortar linings are supported to maintain circularity and avoid damage to the lining. The
                                                                 13.21 Laying of pipes 589

stock dumps for pipes should be properly planned and pipes should only be stacked one
above the other if they are properly provided with timber supports and packers. Care
should be taken not to damage pipe ends: bevel protectors should be fitted to pipes to be
joined by butt welding. Pipes should be stacked in accordance with the manufacturers
recommendations and should not be stacked in areas where long grass may grow: in a dry
period this grass can catch fire, thus ruining the exterior protection of the pipes. All pipes
should be handled by using purpose made lifting slings of a wide fabric material so that the
external coating is not damaged. The practice of lifting pipes by means of chains or wire
ropes 'packed off' the barrel of the pipe by pieces of wood should be forbidden. This not
only damages the pipe, but can be a dangerous practice. When pipes are delivered, and
again just before they are lowered into the trench, they should be inspected for flaws. The
Holiday detector should be passed over steel pipes. Any coating or lining flaws detected
should be made good. The interior of each pipe should be inspected as the pipe is lifted and
any debris must be brushed out.
   General practice is that pipes are buried for safety and security, for protection against
weather, fire and other physical damage; so that they do not obstruct surface drainage or
access and do not present an obvious visual environmental impact or target for vandalism
or source for theft of water. In certain circumstances, for example in sustained lengths of
rock or swampy ground, where excavation would be expensive and where the issues arising
from the above can be accepted, pipes can be laid on supports above ground. Design of the
supports and selection of joints must allow for longitudinal movement due to thermal
effects and provide anchorage for thrusts due to internal pressure. For the above reasons
pipes for water supply in most circumstances are buried.
   At small diameters, flexible PE and PVC pipes can be joined on the surface and snaked
into narrow non-man-entry trenches. Pipes are then usually installed on 100 mm granular
bedding and backfilled to 100 mm above the pipe with free flowing granular material,
above which the main backfill is placed. This allows trenches to be dug by chain excavator,
rock-wheel or narrow bucket. If the pipe is laid directly on the soil then the trench bottom
must give sensibly uniform support to the pipe: it must be stable, fine grained and free
from flints and large stones or other material which may cause point loads. Additional
excavation is required at pipe sockets. If the trench bottom is unsuitable a bedding should
be used. A bedding must be provided for support in soft ground. A nominal minimum of
 150 mm granular bedding must be provided in rock. The trench width for non-man-entry
trenches should be at least 300 mm greater than the outside of the pipe. Trench fill must be
brought up evenly either side of the pipe with soil selected and compacted to give the
required support.
   Steel, plastics and to a large extent ductile iron, are flexible conduits which when buried
rely on the pipe/soil-structure interaction for their load carrying capacity. Deflection
under vertical load is limited by support obtained from the trench sidefill, which in turn
transfers load to the trench sides. It is therefore essential that the pipes are bedded evenly
and are surrounded in material which is well compacted and can transmit the lateral
thrusts from the pipe to the trench sides and that the undisturbed ground does not become
overstressed. Detail design will determine whether the pipe can be laid on the trench
bottom after trimming or whether a bedding must be used.
   Successful implementation requires care in handling the pipe and in placing and
compaction of b a c k f i l l - which in turn requires competent labour and dedicated
supervision and quality control. During backfill pipes must not be supported on timber or
590   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves


hard blocks. Pegs should not be used in the trench bottom for setting out bedding levels.
The danger otherwise is that the pipe will, in time, settle down on hard points in the trench
bottom and damage the coating and may overstress the pipe locally, both in ring and
longitudinal bending. The pipe must be bedded evenly and all voids beneath the pipe must
be filled with compacted fill. It is particularly important to achieve compaction in the
'upper bedding', in the narrow section of fill above the pipe invert: 'pogo stick' type
rammers may be needed for this purpose. Compaction equipment must not damage or
come into contact with the pipe or within typically 150 mm of the top of the pipe. Material
selection and compaction should initially be specified as minimum requirements, with
detail left to implementation. The bedding, pipe surround and initial backfill 300 mm
above the pipe must be free from large stones (larger than say 15 mm) which may damage
the pipe coating. Similarly, voids left by removal of trench supports must be filled -
typically by withdrawing trench supports as fill is raised. Failure to observe the above may
result in loss of the soil side support on which the pipe design relies.
   It is vital to make an even bed for pipes, with joint holes previously excavated in the
positions required. All large stones must be removed from the bed and no hard bands of
rock should straddle the trench. The use of boning rods and sight rails for every pipe is
essential and work should be stopped until these are provided. What constitutes a 'large
stone' which should be removed in the base of the trench depends upon the pipe and the
nature of the material forming the base of the trench. Generally any stone or stones which
might give uneven bedding to the pipe invert or puncture its coating, over one-third of the
width of the trench, i.e. along the central band of the trench where the pipe will bed, will
need to be removed. In all cases where rock is encountered, and rock includes chalk with
hard bands in it, the base of the trench must be filled with 150 mm of granular material.
After trimming the trench bottom or compacting the bedding a depth of 50 mm of
uncompacted soft sand may be left loose to form a uniform support for the bottom arc of
the pipe. Alternatively the bedding must be shaped and compacted to match the curvature
of the bottom of the pipe: the method adopted will depend on in situ soils and
workmanship. Either way the work is required such that the specified deflections are not
 exceeded.
    Where rock - or unduly soft soil - is expected there should be liberal provision for
 bedding in the bills of quantities. If this is not adequately provided for, the supervising
 engineer on site may be reluctant to order the proper bedding the site conditions demand
 because of the additional cost involved. He or she should not be put in such a position.
 The provision of bedding or fully surrounding pipes can solve many pipe-laying problems
 in a sound manner. The bedding not only gives full support to the pipe, protecting it from
 settlement on hard points and from excessive overburden pressure or traffic loading, but it
 can also give protection against corrosion in aggressive soils.
    Lengths of pipeline should be laid to even grades: good practice is to limit grades to not
 less than 1:500. This gradient can be readily achieved and monitored during construction.
 Flatter gradients are possible but have greater risk of backfall (reverse gradient) either due
 to limitations of control during construction or due to movement during backfill.
 Backfalls will produce minor p o n d i n g - which may not be i m p o r t a n t - and air traps,
 which can affect pressure tests. For distribution pipes which have service connections a flat
 grade does not particularly matter as air will be drawn off via the service connections. On
 trunk pipelines, however, it is important to arrange even rises to air valves.
                                                                   13.21 Laying of pipes 591

   Care should be taken during pipe-laying to ensure that pipes cannot float in the event of
the trench flooding. Trenches should be backfilled as soon as possible after laying and
jointing: long lengths of uncovered pipe should not be permitted. This will also help limit
thermal movement, which can be particularly important for plastics pipes.
   Considerable trouble is experienced when laying pipelines through urban districts where
many other services, e.g. gas, electricity, etc., will have to be negotiated. No amount of
pre-planning work will ever reveal all the problems that will be encountered since records
of these other services are seldom perfect or to the accuracy necessary. Close liaison with
the utility operators is required; utilities location by CAT and Genny surveys are essential,
 followed where possible by trial pitting to find such services ahead of pipe-laying. The
trench should preferably be excavated well ahead of pipe-laying, if the road authority will
permit this so that the line and level can be adjusted in good time. Small angle deviations
can be accommodated at joints and if need be by introducing shorter lengths. Stocks of
pre-formed bends should also be held available for use when negotiating the pipeline
around obstacles. Gussetted bends (otherwise termed mitred, or lobster back bends) in
steel pipes can be fabricated from straight pipe to suit any combination of vertical and
horizontal angles.
   If two pipelines are to be accommodated in one trench, a minimum spacing of 300 mm
should be kept between the two lines. If a parallel pipeline is to be constructed at a future
time enough space must be allowed in the pipeline reserve to construct a second trench
without disturbing the original w o r k s - and consideration must be given to unbalanced
thrusts as it will be unlikely that the original pipeline can be shut down for an extended
period.
   Backfilling to pipes should be placed in even layers either side of the pipe up to soffit
level and, in addition, for non-rigid pipes the backfill must be carefully compacted to keep
the pipe in a true cylindrical form. The backfill material adjacent to the pipe and for
 150 mm above its crown must be free of large sharp stones that could puncture the
sheathing of the pipe. When the material from the trench is being excavated it should be
inspected and instructions should be given for setting aside material that should not be
used against the pipe. This material can be used in refilling the trench once the pipe has
been properly covered with soft material.
   A principal requirement for satisfactory pipe-laying is care in making the joints.
Achieving cleanliness in a muddy trench is far from easy and the men should be provided
with the facilities required, such as clean water and buckets, plenty of wiping rags, and
enough room to work and time to make the joint properly. The reward for taking care
with each joint is a pipeline which passes the test requirements at the first test: this can save
weeks of extra work.
   Cover to pipes should normally be not less than 1.0 m to provide some protection
against physical (third party) damage; for frost protection and to limit the effect of
seasonal ground movement. Depths of cover will need to be increased in climates with very
low and prolonged low temperature. Cover can if necessary be reduced (for example to
limit temporary environmental impact or to reduce excavation in rock) where flow in the
pipe is continuous even in areas liable to f r o s t - but requires calculation of heat transfer.
Cover may be increased to reduce loading under heavily trafficked roads (minimum load is
typically at about 1.8 m, depending on pipe and traffic load). Cover may also be increased
for flexible pipes which rely on soils support, which may be removed by excavation for
other services- alternatively an easement must be created (and enforced) to prevent
592   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves

encroachment of other excavations on the pipeline soil support (which typically requires
no soil movement within two pipe diameters each side of the pipe, total five diameters
width). Where shallow burial is necessary below roads, a reinforced concrete slab across
and bearing on undisturbed ground each side of the trench can be used to transfer imposed
load away from the pipe. Thrust blocks must be designed having regard to both the
pipeline thrust developed under operating and surge pressure or pipeline testing conditions
and to the soil resistance available. Thrust blocks do not resist pipeline thrust by
themselves: they transfer the thrust to the ground and hence the soil resistance that can be
mobilised to resist this must be carefully analysed. All such blocks must bear against
undisturbed ground. Support blocks are required where pipes are laid at gradients of 1:6
or steeper and may be needed on slopes between 1:6 to 1:12, depending on ground
conditions. Differential settlement at thrust and anchor blocks needs attention: rocker
pipes may be required. Care is needed in backfill compaction and in selection of backfill
material and grading, particularly on steep gradients, to ensure that the pipe trench does
not become a drain, washing out trench fill and collecting at low points, softening the
trench fill and weakening the combined pipe and soil structure. In weak soils particularly,
backfill grading should be selected using normal filter rules: in certain circumstances it
may be necessary to contain the pipe backfill within a membrane of filter fabric. Care
should be taken during installation to ensure that there is no relative movement at joints:
good bedding and care in backfill placing and compaction are important. Pipelines with
flexible joints at close spacings provide inherently more capacity for natural minor
movement after installation: flexible joints at wide spacings are fewer but can increase
local movement and shear forces.


13.22 Testing of pipelines
The test usually consists first of filling the pipeline with water and allowing it to stand and
stabilise under working pressure. The test pressure is then applied slowly by pumping,
typically to about 50% in excess of the design or working pressure or of some fixed
amount, such as 30 or 50 m water head, in excess of the maximum working pressure. The
pump is then disconnected and the amount of fall of pressure in a given time (usually 1
hour) is measured. After this time has elapsed water is again pumped into the line under
test, to bring the pressure back to its initial value, and the amount of water pumped in is
measured. Water is then bled off to reduce the pressure to the value at the end of the
standing period and this quantity is checked against the quantity pumped in and is
recorded as the loss.
   BS 8010 gives the standard for field testing of pipelines with non-porous linings as a loss
not exceeding 2 litres of water per metre of nominal internal diameter of pipe per kilometre
of pipeline per m head of applied water pressure per 24 hours. The standard is fairly
rigorous. The allowable loss does not set out to permit leakage of any value but is intended
to represent inaccuracies in measurement, temperature changes, small quantities of
dissolved air and other elements. All exposed parts of the pipeline, including in chambers
should be visually checked and all leakages rectified. A loss of 3.3 1/m diameter/m
pressure/kin length/24 h is permitted for new concrete pipes where the lining is absorbent
and is likely to require uneconomic and probably unjustified time in reaching the
recommended 2 litre figure. This higher value is permitted provided that a minimum of
four and preferably at least six tests are made and a plot of leakage shows that the loss is
                                                                 13.22 Testing of pipelines 593

reducing and that the 2 litre value would be likely to be reached. No such adjustment is
mentioned but might be reasonable for steel pipes with concrete or cement mortar linings-
and for asbestos cement pipes the 2 litre value is retained but the soak time prior to test is
extended to at least 4 hours or until stabilisation. It would be reasonable to expect zero
leakage on a buried welded steel pipeline tested over a 24-hour period and to 90% yield,
provided correction is made for dissolved air and for temperature changes.
   The test pressure recommended varies between standards as follows:

Steel:          pipe stress should not exceed 75% yield (AWWA Mll);
Ductile iron:   allowable operating pressure (PFA) plus 5 bar or maximum operating pressure
                (including surge) if less (BS 8010, Section 2.1);
AC:             75% of the works hydraulic test pressure measured at the lowest point of each
                section: sections should be 500-1000 m long and selected so that the test pressure
                is not less than 60% of the works hydraulic test pressure or 1.5 times the pipeline
                design pressure if the above is not economic (BS 8010, Section 2.3);
PSC:            1.5 times working pressure except if the pipeline is strengthened for surge, in
                which case it should be working pressure plus surge (BS 8010, Part 2.4);
RC:             as for PSC (BS 8010, Section 2.7);
PVC:            1.5 times nominal working pressure of the lowest rated component or the rated
                pressure if greater (WRc manual);
GRP:            1.5 times working pressure subject to a minimum of working pressure plus 5 bar
                (BS 8010 Section 2.5);
PE:             1.5 times rated pressure for 6 and 10 bar systems and 1.5 times working
                pressure for 12 and 16 bar systems (WRc manual)

   Where the alternative test pressure relates to surge, an additional margin of at least 20 m
would be prudent. Pipe testing should proceed quickly after installation and results should
be linked to payment for the pipeline. Initial tests should be made starting with short
lengths for each mainlaying gang and pipe size and material. Test lengths can gradually be
increased typically to 5 or 10 km or between section valves as a successful track record is
developed. Test lengths will depend on topography and availability of water.
   Fluctuating test pressure results are likely to be caused by air locks in the pipe. To avoid
air locks there must be suitable air valves on the pipeline. Filling must proceed slowly,
particularly on falling gradients, to vent air and avoid hydraulic jumps and entraining air.
BS 8010, Section 2.3 quotes a filling rate equivalent to a water velocity about 0.05 m/s.
This is very low. There is no hard and fast rule: time of the operation is also important and
is linked to test lengths. An equivalent velocity between about 0.2-0.5 m/s is sensible but
can be varied to suit circumstances. Source of water and pumping arrangements should be
designed to allow any entrained air to escape and to prevent air entrainment into the pipe.
   Air must not be used for testing water mains. The test must be hydrostatic and take
place between blank flanges, bolted or welded to pipe ends, or caps may be used if fully
supported by anchor blocks. Where pipes have flexible joints the end pipe must be fully
anchored. Testing should not take place between closed valves because if the valve is
already inserted in the line it will not be possible to detect any leakage past the valve, and if
the valve is exposed at the end of a section of the line it will be in the 'open end condition'
and will leak unless it is designed for the 'closed end condition' (see Section 13.26).
   When a pipeline fails its test and it has been backfilled, searching for leaks can be
troublesome. It is best to leave the pipeline under pressure for a day or two so that,
594    Pipes, pipeline construction and valves


possibly, a wet patch on the surface of the ground will indicate the whereabouts of failure.
The pipe may also be sounded for leakage using normal waste detection methods (see
Section 15.16) and it is possible to use some kind of tracer element in the water, although
this is a skilled matter requiring a specialist. In practice, therefore, it is usual to dig down
to the joints until the leakage point is found. Usually this is not as time-consuming as one
might expect because wet ground is easily found if the pipeline is left under pressure.


13.23 Making connections
If a socket and spigot tee has to be inserted into an existing pipeline the length cut out of
the latter must be slightly greater than the overall length of the tee. The socket of the tee is
pushed up to fit one end of the cut pipe and the resulting gap between the two spigots at
the other end is joined by using a collar. If a double-socketed tee is used this must be
inserted using a plain piece of pipe on one side, again joined by a collar to the pipeline.
   An alternative is to use an 'under-pressure connection', as shown in Plate 30. A split
collar is clamped on to the main, the collar having a flanged branch on it to which is bolted
a valve. A cutting machine is attached to the valve, the latter is then opened, and the cutter
is moved forward through the valve and trepans a hole in the side of the pipe. The cutter is
withdrawn with the trepanned piece of pipe wall and the valve is closed. The cutting
machine is then removed and the branch connection can be made. Steel and iron pipes can
be cut in situ using a rotating cutting tool which is clamped onto the main. A manually
operated wheel cutter can be used on small diameter cast iron mains of 80 or 100 mm size.
Oxyacetylene cutting of steel and iron pipes can be used, but the cut is ragged and difficult
to make exactly at right-angles to the axis of the pipe. Cast and ductile iron pipes can be
cut above ground using a hammer and chisel. The pipe is placed on a timber baulk below
the line of cut and is rolled back and forth as the chiselling proceeds: first to 'mark' the
cutting line and then to deepen the chiselled groove. At a certain stage the pipe will come
apart at the chiselling line. When asbestos cement pipes are cut, or sawn, a water jet must
 be directed on to the cutting point to prevent asbestos fibre being raised in the air.


13.24 Underwater pipelines
Steel and PE are materials commonly used for pipelines laid below water for the crossings
of rivers or estuaries. Both materials can be welded, thus providing longitudinal continuity
of strength. Other materials can also be used, including concrete, GRP, PVC and ductile
iron but require particular attention to tolerance on bed preparation, practicalities of level
and position measurement underwater, plus the strength and deflection limits of flexible
joints. Pipe-laying is normally carried out by one of the following methods:
(1)   laybarge;
(2)   reel barge;.
(3)   bottom pull;
(4)   float and sink.
The laybarge is a 'factory' for progressively adding pipes to a string whilst winching the
barge along the pipeline route so that the string hanging in a catenary from the back of the
barge is gradually lowered onto the river or sea bed or into a pre-dredged trench. The reel
barge method is similar but is used for unreeling lengths of plastic tubing as the barge
                                                                      13.25 Valve types    595


moves along the pipeline route. In the bottom pull method lengths of pipe, prefabricated
onshore, are joined to form a pipe string which is progressively pulled into the water
by a winch, mounted on a pontoon or on the far shore, until the crossing is complete. In
the float and sink method lengths of pipe are made up into strings at a remote fabrication
yard, the string is towed at or below the water surface to the crossing location where it is
aligned into position and sunk by removing supporting buoyancy tanks or filling with
water.
   Internal operating conditions are similar to those described for land pipelines but special
attention needs to be given to external conditions as, once laid, access to a pipeline for
remedial work is unlikely to be available. Attention has to be paid to stresses during
laying, soil conditions, the effects of currents and waves (including soil liquefaction), sea
bed topography and morphology, protection against corrosion and protection against
damage by ships anchors, dropped objects, fisheries (trawl boards) and other activities.
Physical protection in shallow water typically requires burial with some cover below the
lowest likely level of bed movement and depth of penetration of any ship's anchor. In deep
water where wave and current action is small, the pipeline may be laid without burial,
subject to limitations of profile and hazards.
   Because of their weight, pipelines are in general installed empty. Positive submerged
weight ('negative buoyancy') is required to prevent the pipes from floating and for stability
under the action of waves and currents. (Pipes installed by float and sink would be towed
in strings and manoeuvred into position using temporary buoyancy.) Weight is added
typically, for steel pipes, as a continuous concrete cladding and, for polyethylene pipes,
concrete collars are used, spaced, shaped and sized to give the required underwater specific
gravity and stability. Design considerations include buckling under external hydrostatic
pressure, pull forces, longitudinal bending as the pipe is towed or conforms to the
underwater p r o f i l e - and ring bending under backfill loads. The cladding thickness is
typically about 10% of the pipe diameter. It is sometimes considered simply as temporary
weight coat but it does serve to protect the external corrosion coat and therefore can act as
part of the permanent structure. The cladding can contribute significantly to bending
stiffness particularly in ring bending: differences at joints can raise stresses locally. Above
about DN 1500 the cladding is stiff and thick enough to be designed as reinforced concrete
structural ring. This can be used to support and reduce the thickness required to withstand
buckling of the steel s h e l l - typically by 40% - and carry external backfill loads. The
combined structure can also be designed to withstand ships anchors, thus saving
considerably on the costs and environmental impacts of deep burial. 6 Backfill must be
designed not to liquefy and to be stable under wave action. Rock armour can also be
chosen and designed to save on burial costs. With care, considerable economies can
therefore be achieved.
   Design standards include BS 8010 Part 3; BS 6349; DNV rules; ASME B31.8, PIANC,
US Shore Protection Manual and CIRIA/CUR recommendations for rock armour (see
Bibliography).


Valves
13.25 Valve types
Valves used in waterworks may be listed as stop valves, non-return valves, flow control
valves, pressure control valves, energy dissipaters, and air valves.
596   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves

  Stop valves are of several different varieties, namely:
(1) sluice valves which consist of a gate shut down into the pipeline;
(2) butterfly valves which consist of a pivoted disc in the pipeline, turned through 90 ~ to
    block the flow of water;
(3) needle valves which consist of a cone, moved longitudinally or expanded in diameter
    so as to stop annular flow around the cone;
(4) screwdown plug valves which consist of a plug or diaphragm which is forced on to a
    circular seating through which the water is flowing (used only for small pipes or low
    heads).
Valves may be operated by hand or by actuator. Actuators generally are electric (but may
be hydraulic or pneumatic) and may be operated locally or by remote control. Where there
is no local power supply, portable power packs may be used. An inching facility for fine
control and impulse facility for offseating valves which have not been regularly operated
are useful.


13.26 Sluice valves
Sluice valves were invented over one hundred years ago. The metal seated type has not
materially altered in design except that toroidal (O ring) seals have in general replaced
gland packing in the stuffing box at the top of the valve. Figure 13.4 shows a section
through a large valve. The gate is wedge shaped and is lowered into a groove cast in the


                                                                                     Close
                                          Close
                                                                                   ~ 3
                                                                (Castiron cap --       ~Jl
                                                                alternative
                                                                to handwheel)
                                           Bronzespindle
                Glandpacking, ~ ~       / (squarethreaded)    Glandpacking
            Bronzethrustcollar...~[ ~       .              Bronzespindl
                         ~ / .       ...... ,]
                                                                                               ~
                           ~.-   ,/.i.,             ]

                                                         Bronzethrustc o l l a r - f / ~
                                                             Gunmetal~ / L ~ L ~ I                  \
                                                             spindle   n        ~
                          -.~:-,:, . . . . . .
               Gunmetal ~ ' ~      tl                       in raised~      ~1,~- ]--']--                ["
               spindle n l ~                   ~_           position      L~k~l ~                        }
                                                           Gunmetalf a c e ~ ' ~ ' ~ ' ~ _ ~ ~ ~         I
          Gate          -$-~-~              I-- [          togate          ~'1 ~                   "\~
          (in I o w e r e d ~               /   |          Gategu=d
          position) Bore          //I      ] [
            GunmetalL ~ _ _ ~ . ~          / |            Gunmetalface
                                                          to seating
            seating -~I          "-I~     I     |
            Gunmetal
             ~       .e
            rim to gut
                                      ~_~--~_j
                                                        Flangesto BS4504


Fig. 13.4 Metal seal sluice valve for 300 mm diameter pipe.
                                                                      13.26 Sluice valves   597


body of the valve, the meeting faces being made of gunmetal. The design is simple and
relies for watertightness upon the gunmetal faces being forced together to make a
watertight joint. Resilient seat valves offer an alternative and are in general use up to DN
300, in which the gate is encapsulated with rubber and seals against a clear full bore
typically without grooves. A further development is the boltless design for the valve body:
this stems from the cost benefits of mass production and the hypothesis that it is cheaper
to replace rather than refurbish valves up to and including DN 300. Sluice valves have a
low head loss coefficient, hence their use is ideal for maximising pump efficiency on
pumping installations. However they do have a number of troublesome characteristics.
 (1) When closed, an unbalanced head of water will press the gate heavily against the
      seating; to re-open the valve against any large unbalanced head requires a great force.
      Above certain unbalanced heads for the larger sizes of valve it is impossible to open
      such valves manually, even if gearing is used. Where high unbalanced heads must be
     met, anti-friction devices, such as ball-bearing thrust collars and anti-friction rollers
     and external rising screws which can be greased, must be u s e d - although these
     measures are not usually required. The most effective method and first step in meeting
      high unbalanced heads is to provide a bypass to the valve.
 (2) The amount of work required for full opening or closing of a large valve is also great.
     The time taken by two men to open one of the larger valves of DN 700 or more may
     well be more than 1 hour. This is not a defect hydraulically since large flows of water
     should not be suddenly stopped or severe surge pressures will result, but it does mean
     that in waterworks shutdowns, as for instance for repairs of mains, considerable time
     must be allowed for operating valves.
(3) Sluice valves which are left shut for a long time tend to stick shut and require even
     greater force to get the gate off the seating. Similarly sluice valves which have been left
     open for a long time may not close properly because of collection of dirt in the gate
     groove which prevents proper closure of the gate.
(4) A sluice valve is only designed to close drop tight at a given unbalanced pressure; it
     may not close drop tight at greater or lesser unbalanced pressures.
(5) Sluice valves must be specified as designed for the 'open end test' or the 'closed end
     test'. A valve designed for drop tight closure under open end conditions may not close
     drop tight for closed end conditions. A closed end siting of a valve is when that valve is
     so fixed that it cannot expand when pressure is put on it, as in the case of a double-
     flanged valve connected into rigidly held pipework. An open end situated valve is one
     where the valve is free to expand, as for instance where it is held to the pipeline by one
     flange only or where the joint on the downstream side is a slip joint, such as a flange
     adapter coupling, which permits expansion of the valve body along the line of
     pipework.
(6) A sluice valve is not the proper device for controlling the rate of flow of water through
     a pipe. Figure 13.5 shows how the waterway on a sluice valve decreases with travel of
     the gate. Only the last 10% travel of the gate towards closure has any substantial
     effect on the flow rate, depending upon the pressure of the water in the pipeline, and
     this means that when controlling flow the water will be passing under the gate at high
     velocity. The gate may develop vibration as a consequence and cavitation resulting
     from the reduction in pressure of the high velocity water flowing under the gate may
     cause pitting and erosion.
598   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves

                    100
                          Percentage shut
                    90

                    80
                                   Butterfly valve
               "5
                r
                  70      9


                    60    9

                    50    9


               E 40       9
                                                                     Sluice valve
                0
                L

               a.   30.

                    20

                     10

                              I         I     I      I   I   ,   I   I     I        I    I
                              10       20    30   40    50    60  70      80    90      100
                                             Percentage gate movement


Fig. 13.5 Valve waterway area in relation to gate travel.


(7) Repairs to a sluice valve (other than repacking of glands) involve emptying the main
    in which the valve is situated.
(8) Sluice valves are expensive and, in the larger sizes, they are heavy single items of
    equipment to handle.
Some of these difficulties can be minimised by making the valve about five-eighths to
three-quarters the size of the pipeline. If the valve is connected in line by properly designed
tapers, particularly if a long taper is given on the downstream side, very little headloss will
occur when the valve is fully open. The amount of head lost will be a few cm of water
pressure only. The cost of the valve will be less (by as much as 50% in the larger sizes), its
insertion into line will be made easier because it will have less weight, and the force
required to open it will be substantially reduced. This practice should always be followed
where possible. Difficulty with sticking valves and dirt on the gate groove can be greatly
reduced by routinely operating valves. To leave valves unoperated for years on end is an
unwise policy as they may not then close in some emergency. The problem of opening
large valves against unbalanced heads is greatly eased by installing a bypass to the valve,
on which bypass a second smaller valve is fixed as shown on Fig. 13.13. Bypasses need not
be very large in diameter, a DN 100 bypass would normally be suitable for a DN 800
valve. The effect of the bypass depends upon the downstream conditions of the pipeline. In
general, however, even if the pressure is not substantially raised downstream of the main
valve when the bypass is opened, pressure is reduced on the upstream side of the main
valve and, accordingly, the force required to unseat the gate of the main valve is reduced.
A bypass is also useful for filling a main since this can be opened first and the flow into the
empty downstream section more carefully controlled than if the main valve were opened.
                                                                13.28 Screwdown valves     599


A power driven actuator may be used to operate a valve; it may be directly coupled to the
valve spindle or be mounted on a headstock and coupled to the valve through an extension
spindle.


13.27 Butterfly valves
At and below about DN 300-400 sluice valves are cheaper than butterfly valves due to the
quantity required and the benefits of mass production. Butterfly valves tend otherwise to
be cheaper because they are smaller and require less material and less civil works. The use
of the butterfly valve in water distribution systems has increased; it is easy to operate such
a valve against unbalanced water pressures because of the partially balanced pressure
against the disc. Butterfly valves can be metal seated or resilient seated: in the latter case
the seat is usually made of natural or synthetic rubber and can be fixed to the disc or to the
body of the valve.
   Resilient seated valves can be specified as 'droptight', meaning virtually watertight when
shut against unbalanced pressures up to the design head. Hence such valves are the type
usually specified for isolating valves in distribution systems. They do, however, prevent the
passage of foam swabs used for cleaning mains, but this does not usually pose a problem if
the valves are spaced reasonably far apart, since the main can then be cleaned in sections.
Short lengths of pipe of between 1.5 and 2.0 m on either side of the valve are made
removable so that the cleaning apparatus can be inserted and removed.
   Metal seated butterfly valves do not have tight shut-off characteristics and are mainly
intended for flow control purposes where they need to be held in the partially open
position. (Resilient seated valves are used for this purpose also.) Metal seated valves are
not necessarily more durable than resilient seated valves since scouring of the seating can
occur if silty water flows at high velocity past a disc which is held only slightly open. Solid
rubber seatings are the type of resilient seating most usually adopted. Inflatable seals have
been used on very large valves, but not always with success. One advantage of the butterfly
valve is that closure of the valve in flowing water causes loose debris below the disc to be
swept away. Disc position indicators are useful and strong disc stops integral with the
body should be specified, so that the operator can feel with certainty when the disc is fully
closed or fully open.
   Butterfly valves have been made to very large diameters (10 m or more) operating under
very high heads and at high water velocities (20 m/s or more) and have proved successful
in use. However when a valve is to be used for flow control purposes the maximum
velocity through the valve should be limited to 5 m/s. Permissible leakage under test
should not exceed about 0.06 1/h per 100 mm of nominal diameter for resilient seated
valves under pressures of up to 100 m. 'Wafer thin' butterfly valves fitted with simple lever
operating systems are available for uses such as isolation of air valves to enable
maintenance to be carried out in situ whilst the pipeline remains in service. Because they do
not provide a clear waterway, butterfly valves do not allow pipeline pigging.


13.28 Screwdown valves
Screwdown plug valves are normally made only in the smaller sizes, of which the bibtap is
a typical example. The body of the valve is so cast that the water must pass through an
orifice which is normally arranged in the horizontal plane. A plug or diaphragm, or in the
600   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves

case of a bibtap or stopcock a 'jumper', can then be forced down on to this orifice by a
screwed handle, shutting the water flow off as shown in Fig. 13.6. This principle is used in
all sorts of valves for shutting off or controlling flow.
   The same principle applies to ball valves, to pressure or flow control valves, to hydrant
valves and to many other types of valves. Where the pressure is low the size of valve can be
quite large, as for instance with simple plugs for stopping flow into a drain. When the size
of pipe, and therefore of orifice, is small then high pressures can be controlled, as in the
case of the ordinary domestic tap. The defects of these particular types of stop valves are
that their seatings need renewal from time to time if they are in frequent use and that, even
when wide open, they cause a considerable loss of pressure.




                                                            box




Fig. 13.6 Screwdown stopcock for service pipe.



13.29 Non-return valves
The usual type of non-return valve consists of a fiat disc within the pipeline pivoted so that
it is forced open when the flow of water is in one direction and forced shut against a
seating when the flow tries to reverse (see Fig. 13.7) and is often termed a 'swing check
valve'. The seating is arranged slightly out of perpendicular when the valve is to be inserted
into a horizontal pipe so that the flap will close by gravity when there is no flow. The speed
with which the flap acts is often important, especially on pump delivery lines where the
valve is required to be fully shut the moment forward flow of the water ceases. The valve
can be assisted to shut quickly at the appropriate time by bringing its pivoting spindle out
through the body of the valve and putting a counterbalancing weight upon this.
Conversely a damping device may be required to prevent slamming of the gate which
might cause high surge pressures. The defect of non-return valves is that they cause a
substantial headloss because the weight of the gate must be lifted and kept suspended by
the pressure of the flowing water. They are normally designed for flow velocities of
3-5 m/s. If the gate is very large and heavy the headloss created can be large and this
objection can sometimes be met by providing several smaller and lighter flaps in a single
bulkhead.
                                                                                      13.30 Control valves 601

                                                                                      Brass air plug




                                                    I    - I -           l l ~ G u n m e t a l _ d~176
                                                    ] F low /            ~I~          with gunmetal
                                                  l = ' - ' - ' i Ore     /i~         seating ring . . . .




                                                                        Flanges to BS 4504 f

Fig. 13.7 Non-return valve.


13.30 Control valves
The operation of a typical control valve is best illustrated by taking as a first example the
standard pressure reducing valve shown in Fig. 13.8. This maintains a pre-set pressure in
the main downstream of the valve irrespective of the pressure upstream. Of course, if the
pressure upstream is insufficient the valve simply opens wide and no more pressure is
available downstream than the upstream pressure less the loss through the valve, which is
about 5v2/g, where v is the mean velocity at the valve inlet (taking a typical 'k' value of 10
in kv2/2g). Pressure reducing valves of this sort should be sized so that their full open
capacity is more than adequate for the desired maximum flow.
   A pressure sustaining valve is shown in Fig. 13.9 and operates to keep the pressure
upstream of the valve to a given amount. This sort of valve is used, for instance, where a
distribution area A feeds a second distribution area B. With a sustaining valve in the
feedline, adequate pressure can be maintained in the distribution area A without excessive

                                                   11


                                                                                1   Valve element
                                                                                2   Upper cylinder
                                                                                3   Isolating cocks
                                         9                   12                 4   Strainer
                                             8__~~.~~                           5   Orifice
                                                                                6   Needle cock
                 ll     8~           7                                          7   Indicator
             5~                                                                 8   Relayvalve
             4 i---                                                             9   Diaphragm
                                                                               10   Spring
                                                                               11   Adjusting screw
                                                                               12   Pressure gauge

                                                          Operation. If P2 increases,
                                                          valve 8 tends to close, increasing
                                                          P3, causing main valve 1
                                                          to close (and vice versa).



Fig. 13.8 Pressure reducing valve.
602   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves


                                                                    1   Valve element
                                                                    2   Upper cylinder
                                                                    3   Isolating cocks
                                                                    4   Strainer
                                                                    5   Orifice
                                                                    6   Needle cock
                                                                    7   Indicator
                                                                    8   Relay valve
                                                                    9   Diaphragm
                                                                   10   Spring
                                                                   11   Adjusting screw
                                                                   12   Pressure gauge

                                                               Operation. If P~ increases, valve
                                                               8 tends to open, reducing PH,
                                                               causing main valve l to open
                                                               (and vice versa).



Fig. 13.9       Pressure sustaining valve.


demand in B pulling the pressure down in A. (In effect A's demand takes precedence over
B's demand.) When the valve is full open, however, the pressure upstream passes through
to the downstream side, less the loss of head in the valve (5v2/g). This valve can also be
used as a pressure relief valve if connected on a branch to a main where the branch,
downstream of the valve, discharges to waste.
   A constant flow valve is shown in Fig. 13.10. An orifice plate in the main upstream of
the valve measures the flow and creates a differential pressure. The valve adjusts so as to
maintain a constant differential pressure across the orifice, thus maintaining a constant
flow in the pipe.
   A variable flow control valve works on the same principle as the constant flow valve
illustrated, except that the differential pressure set across the orifice is adjusted manually,


                                                               11

                                                           10




                                             6~>   n~ /        8

                                                                              Operation. If flow increases,
            3             X~3 _3(3           B     I I    k~            3(3 pressure difference across the
                                                                            flow orifice increases, valve 8
                                                                              tends to close, increasing PH,
                                                                              causing main valve 1 to close
                 Flow orifice                                                 (and vice versa).



Fig. 13.10 Constant flow valve.
                                                                        13.33 Air valves    603


or altered to follow some signal received from a controller, so that the flow in consequence
is altered. The valve can be fitted with a motor for control of the outlet pressure from a
remote point via a telemetry system or for automatic closure in the event of the outlet
pressure falling below a pre-set value, i.e. due to a pipe burst.


13.31 Needle (or hollow jet) valves
In a typical needle valve (Howell Bunger type) flow passes around the housing for a
conical shaped piston located centrally within the valve body. The flow can be gradually
reduced by advancing the position of the piston into a tapered nosing on the upstream side
until complete closure is achieved. Plate 30 shows a cross-section through such a valve
which is suitable for pressure regulation of flow in situations of high pressure and is free
from cavitation and vibration. The valves are particularly suitable for 'free discharge' high
pressure duties such as occur during draw-off at the base of a dam. A variant is the
submerged discharge valve which is fitted to carry flow down to a ported and sleeved
discharge at the base of a concrete pit: water then flows up the annular space between the
valve body and the pit, before flowing to the outfall.


13.32 Jet dispersers
All control valves are energy destroying devices, but there is a particular kind of fitting
whose sole aim is to destroy the energy of fast flowing water before it falls or is ejected into
a river or a basin. These have no moving parts and are known as 'jet dispersers' and are
used at the ends of pipelines under high head where water must be given a free discharge.
If the full bore jet of water were to be left to fall upon the soft bed of a river then a large
hole would be quickly scoured in the river bed. The aim of the jet disperser is therefore to
break up the solid flow of the water and disperse it into numerous fine jets or droplets.
This is assisted by angled fins in the jet disperser which give the water a 'twist' so that it
sprays out over a wide area and the discharge cannot be sustained as a sheet, and breaks
down into droplets whose fall velocity is reduced by friction through the air. Jet dispersers
are usual on scour pipes, including washouts from mains, when the head on the pipe is
likely to be high.


13.33 Air valves
Air trapped in a pipeline will reduce the area of flow, increasing the friction loss and hence
reducing the flow capacity. Air trapped at a series of high points on a pipeline profile will
have a cumulative effect and may seriously restrict flow. For air to be a problem under
normal flow conditions there must be a source of air (for example at poorly designed
intakes and pumps), the air must separate or come out of solution (typically as internal
pressure reduces along a pumped system) and must accumulate and not be moved along
the pipe (which is a function of pipe gradient, diameter and flow velocity). A well-designed
system will therefore aim to prevent entry of air and will provide air release points (a) to
allow filling and emptying of the main, (b) to avoid flow instability and surge
complications due to air pockets, (c) to limit subatmospheric pressures and pipe buckling
in the event of a burst, (d) to allow for development of flow up to the ultimate design flow
and (e) as a safeguard so that if air does enter, it is not swept along the pipe.
604   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves

    Before a pipeline can be filled with water, means must be provided for releasing air from
it. Once the pipe is full of water, however, any aperture for release of air must close so that
no water is lost. An air release valve is designed to meet this condition. The orifice through
which the air is to pass is circular and below it is a ball of special composition which will
float in water (Fig. 13.11). So long as air exists below the orifice the ball will be floating on
the water surface below, but as soon as water begins to be released the ball will rise and
close the orifice. The design must, however, take several other factors into account, for
example the ball must not be sucked on to the orifice by high velocity air and nor must the
ball vibrate up and down. It is usual to provide any large pipeline with two sorts of air
release valve, one being a 'large orifice' air valve designed to release large quantities of air
when a pipeline is being filled with water and the other a 'small orifice' type which is
designed for continuous operation, releasing small quantities of air as they collect in the
main. Double orifice air valves comprise one of each type in the same unit. Their price is
not materially different from a single air valve and after allowing for the cost of a tee, an
isolating valve, installation and a chamber, it is sometimes common to install only 'double
air valves' except at particular locations such as reservoirs and pump manifolds.
    Apart from air which must be discharged to permit the filling of a pipeline, air can be
introduced from pumps and from the release of air in solution in the water as its pressure
reduces. The latter amount depends upon the pressure reduction and other factors, but
water at standard conditions contains 2% dissolved air by volume. Whilst it is obvious
that some air will collect at high points, there is also always a likelihood of air collecting at
changes of gradient in the pipeline (see Fig. 13.12). The air is not necessarily shifted by the
water flow, especially on a downhill gradient where air at the soffit of the pipe may not be
able to travel backwards against the flow. Test data 7-12 show that air tends to move as


                          i             i               i


                                  Seat ring     //J~.~ ,~~~~AI             Orifice cover
                                                                 Orifice



                                                                                   Pivot pin
               Float "
               guides

                                Float




Fig. 13.11 Double orifice air valve.
                                                                                                                  13.33 Air valves            605




    FI~~~~--
                           Arrows show possible direction of air accumulation
           . . . . . . .      "-~- - . . m _ ~        __ w                                                              Large
                                   9,             \          --- .   .    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    .    AV    .   .   .   .


    of water   9\ ~                     L~    AV~                        AV                           ~                  ~'

                                             '9                      /  Lesseningof /        large air valve
               Air likely to accumulate                          Bridge upgrade in direction required for
               because of lessening                                     of flow will cause filling purposes
               of hydraulic gradient                                    accumulation of air
               and steeper downgrade
               in direction of flow
Fig. 13.12 Diagram showing desirable positions for air valves on a length of pipeline.


pockets, which can be carried forward on a downward gradient but will rise against the
flow when the gradient is steeper than a critical value, which can be calculated for
gradients less than about 1o as about 1 in 120 D~ V 2, where D is the pipe diameter in metres
and V is the water flow velocity in m/s. For example, an air pocket in a DN600 pipeline
laid at 1 in 500 downhill would travel uphill against a flowof about 0.38 m/s. This implies
that air can accumulate and therefore requires air release valves at quite shallow changes
of gradient, particularly where flows may be less than design peak flows. Caution is
required in assessing gradient, to allow for tolerances and pipe movement. Air bubbles will
be carried forward at gradients typically about seven times steeper. Air pockets imply a
reduction in pipe carrying capacity and potential for instability during any surge. Any
movement of air along a pipeline is slow: when filling a 2 km length of main, for instance,
although the flow from some downstream hydrant may soon be steady, it will be
interrupted by occasional bursts of air for perhaps half an hour or more.
   When filling a main it is common practice to open all fire hydrants along the length of
line to be filled, shutting them only when they cease to discharge air. Whilst large orifice
air valves could be used instead, the fire hydrants permit the discharge of dirty water to
waste and also permit sampling of water quality. Therefore it is a debatable point as to
whether hydrants or large orifice valves should be provided for filling a main.
   It is seldom necessary to put small orifice air valves on distribution mains since air will
be removed via the service pipe connections which should be soffit connected. It is only
necessary to put small orifice valves on distribution mains where there is a sudden hump in
the pipeline, such as when it is laid over a bridge. Where the location of an air valve is not
possible in the road (as cover at high points is usually a minimum), consideration can be
given to taking a tee off the high point to an air valve in the verge. For similar reasons of
cover, air valve chambers may need to be raised above ground level to provide space.
   Bearing the above comments in mind, positions for air valves might be summarised as
follows.
(1) Double orifice air valves are required:
    (a) at high points where air must emerge to permit filling- or air enters to allow
        emptying - and at high points relative to the slope of the hydraulic gradient;
    (b) where a falling pipeline steepens its gradient;
    (c) where a rising pipeline flattens its gradient;
606   Pipes, pipel&e construction and valves

    (d) at intervals on long lengths of pipeline (with no fire hydrants) where necessary to
        permit the release of air for filling the pipeline in convenient sections, generally at
        2 km intervals or thereabouts;
    (e) in each section where a long pipeline is divided into sections by intermediate line
        valves.
(2) Single orifice valves may be required additionally:
    (f) on access manhole covers and other local 'humps' where air may collect;
    (g) at some suitable point a short way downstream of any pump;
    (h) after a pressure reducing valve if there is a substantial reduction of pressure;
    (i) (possibly) at 0.5 km intervals on downward legs of pumping mains if the pump
        may have entrained air and on substantially horizontal mains at 1-2 km intervals,
        especially when the flow velocity tends to be low, account being taken of small
        orifice valves provided under (1) and the presence or absence of service pipes
        connected to the soffit.
Not so many small orifice valves are required towards the ends of a system as over the
beginning lengths where the aim is to ensure early release of air. Large orifice valves are
usually sized to limit sub-atmospheric pressures in the event of a burst - and according to
the estimated rate of filling or emptying of a main. Fast filling is inadvisable. For a large
main over 10 km long a filling time of 3 hours would be reasonable, with shorter lengths
filled in not less than 1 hour: time also being linked to resources and supervision. The flow
capacity of an air valve needs to be taken from manufacturers' catalogues, bearing in mind
that the air pressure within the main will be low. Small orifice valves have an orifice size
which is related to the operating pressure in the main: the higher the pressure the smaller
must be the diameter. It would be usual to ensure that the total small orifice capacity
provided on the system is sufficient to release air at 2% by volume of the water flow.
Again capacities of valves should be taken from manufacturers' catalogues, but in this case
the pressure taken is the working pressure in the main at the location where the air valve is
fixed.
   An isolating valve (sluice valve, butterfly valve or stopcock) should be sited below each
air valve, thus making it possible to remove the air valve for repairs without shutting down
the main. The restriction effect of valves and fittings between the main and the air valve
must be taken into account in assessing air valve capacity as installed. Orifice sizes may be
smaller than the connection size and this coupled with differences in valve design and test
conditions or performance assumptions may give different values for valves of the same
apparent size. It is therefore important to specify performance. On large pipes, air valves
may be fitted to a blank flange on a DN 600 or larger tee to allow access to the pipeline.
Care should be taken to site all air valves above the highest possible groundwater level that
can occur in any pit; if this is not done polluted water may enter the main via the air valve
when the main is emptied. On steel pipelines anti-vacuum valves may be essential to admit
air to prevent the build-up of sub-atmospheric pressures which may cause the pipeline to
collapse when water is drawn off by emptying the main from a lower point. It is important
 also to check the need for this type of protection in analyses for surges on large diameter
 steel pipes. An air valve of the large orifice kind can be used as an anti-vacuum valve.
    Numbers and sizes of air valves require calculation: typical large air valve sizes for
various pipe diameters are:
                                                                        13.35 Washouts     607


            Pipe diameter (mm)               Large air valve branch diameter (mm)
            DN   < 250                       DN 50-65
            DN   250-600                     DN 80-100
            DN   600-900                     DN 150
            DN   900-1200                    DN 200
            DN   1400-1800                   2 number DN 200



13.34 Valve operating spindles
A valve must often be placed so deep that it cannot be reached with the normal length of
tee key so that an extension spindle must be arranged for the valve, running in brackets
rigidly attached to the chamber walls. These extension spindles may be obtained for the
exact length required. It is worthwhile making spindles which are to be immersed in water,
such as those for operating valves inside a reservoir, of manganese bronze so that they
are proof against corrosion. There is, unfortunately, no standard direction of rotation
for operating valves, but the most usual method is for clockwise rotation of the hand-
wheel or tee key to cause the valve to close..Clear labelling of the operating direction is
essential.


13.35 Washouts
Despite the name, a washout is seldom used for scouring or 'washing out' a main because
its diameter is usually too small to create sufficient flow velocity in the main to wash out
debris; its principal use is for emptying a main or for the removal of stagnant or dirty water.
   Primary washouts may be installed to drain to a watercourse the majority of the length
between section valves. Secondary washouts of smaller diameter can then be used to empty
undrained subsections as required. Sizes, particularly primary washouts, need to be
calculated according to the draindown t i m e - which is decided by the number of washouts,
limits on discharge to watercourses, valve spacing, access and resources, but typically to
allow a section to be substantially drained within a working shift.
   Typical minimum sizes adopted for secondary washouts are:

               Main pipeline diameter                 Washout branch diameter
               Up to 300 mm                            80 mm
               400-600 mm                             100 mm
               700-1000 mm                            150 mm
               1100-1400 mm                           200 mm
               1600 mm and larger                     250 mm

  In open country it is usual to install washouts at every low point with additional
washouts being provided in each section where a main is sub-divided into sections by stop
valves. Each washout should discharge, wherever possible, by gravity to the nearest
watercourse. The discharge should be to a concrete pit with overflow to the watercourse in
order to prevent scour from the high velocity discharge. The washout branch on the main
608   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves

should be a 'level invert tee'. In flat country washouts should be spaced 2-5 km apart,
depending on pipeline gradients and valving. Where it is not possible to get a free
discharge to a watercourse the washout will have to discharge to a manhole from which
the water can be pumped out to some other discharge point.
   In distribution systems principal feeder mains are usually provided with washouts
wherever this is convenient, regard being paid to the position of valves on the main and
any branch connections and to the need to be able to empty any leg of the main in a
reasonable time of one or two hours. On small mains, washouts are not normally provided
because fire hydrants can be used for this purpose, but it would be usual to lay a specific
washout to empty a part of the system where a convenient watercourse exists. Washouts
are also placed at the end of every spur main; these usually comprise fire hydrants even
though they may not be officially paid for by the fire authority and designated as such.
They are operated regularly to sweeten the water at the end of the main.
   Care is essential in the design of washouts since, under high heads, the velocity of
discharge can be very high and the consequent jet discharge destructive and dangerous.
Manholes receiving the jet should be of substantial construction and valves should be
lockable and slow opening for high heads. Two valves, one guard and one operating may
be installed where prolonged throttling at high head is required.




13.36 Valve chambers
A typical simple valve chamber is shown in Fig. 13.13. It should be noted that the valve is
anchored on the upstream side having a Viking Johnson flange adapter on the
downstream side which permits the valve to be removed. The valve body is therefore
free to expand downstream when the valve is closed under pressure and it must therefore
be specified for the open end conditions (see Section 13.26). The chamber cover can be
made of pre-cast reinforced concrete beams or slab which can be removed for lifting out
the valve. Removal of a valve should not be necessary for many years so it is frequent
practice to pave or earth over the cover to the chamber, leaving only the access manhole
and the spindle manhole exposed. Every effort should be made to avoid siting the chamber
in a road; it should preferably be in the road verge, but even there the cover should be
strong enough to take heavy vehicles which sometimes run off roads. The thrust or anchor
block must be designed according to the ground conditions so that it is capable of taking
the full thrust when the valve is closed. Two flexible joints, with an intervening 'rocker
pipe' at least 1 m long, should be provided on either side of the chamber to avoid
damaging pipework if any differential settlement of the pipeline, relative to the chambers,
should occur.
   Small valves, i.e. those DN 300 and smaller, are not usually installed in purpose built
chambers. The valve is backfilled around the body to the spindle and then a pre-cast
concrete or brick pit is set round the upper part, or a pipe (DN 80/100) is fitted as a sleeve
for the spindle, and accessed through a surface box for tee key operation. Valves up to and
including DN 600 may also be buried, depending on location and preference: the choice
being on maintenance and the civil works required in accessing the valve.
                                                                                                                                                              Bibliography 609

                                          Thrust block     Do. flanged joint                                                 Flange adaptor
                                             Thrust flange                                                                   (i.e. flange
                                                                                                                           / Viking Johnson
                                  /               on pipe                                           /                     /coupling)

                                                                         '           I~$        [           , ^       /       Ju          l~7,RCplanksinthis
                                                                                                        ..~l.om m/            ~              /area




                 Direction of
                 water flow   ~
                                                                         I           i "
                                                                                                        "."           .-_ - - -!          1 '.._ . Cast in situ slab
                                                                                                                                          ! //'with600x600mm
                       !      /~-                                    l               [              ~ . ~ ~ ~ j                             ] manhole cover
                                      -                                  --~-;                                    ll/mi                   ~'--~ and frame
                      80mmbypass                                                                    ~,~---'~'          ]J     Step irons or
                      andvaIve                                                                      ~             ,        '- ladder below
                                                                                      L~I                 Pump sump and/or drainage outlet




                        .,.               ,                9         '. Ii                  \       _L _ _L                       I'- [      Flange
                            -' "" ". Thrust flang; I L \                                                ~     /                   J'.:i      adaptor
                            '         r~" 9                          o IE.~q~ g ~                                                 I 1
                                                                                     le,i                                         i
                I~      -        ---~diameter pipeN ~'lq~d~.~.~il=~ -                                                             =        "----'P--
                                 11                             ",ItILF-~I~                                                       ! 0
                            9         u . , ..,                          ..,                                                300mrn
                                9 Thru        t       ,                                                                        ,,,
                       : : " ,,                   .       9. . . .                              9 9 ..            ,       .  ' . //Blinding            concrete
                                                                     .       .   .    .
                                                                                                                                      !
                        ' '= ' ' ~ T h r u s t         block keyed into base and sides
                              9" ' ' J         of trench against undisturbed ground

Fig. 13.13 Typical sluice valve chamber design.




Bibliography

WRc   publications

Pipe materials selection m a n u a l - water supply, 2nd edition, June 1995
Manual for PE pipe systems, 2nd edition, July 1994
Manual for PVC pressure pipe systems, 2nd edition, July 1994
Service pipes manual, (Farrage, R.), WRc report FR 0355, WSA/FWR, 1993
Water Industry Standards (WIS)
IGN 4-08-01-1994: Bedding and sidefill materials
WIS 4-08-02-1994: Bedding and sidefill materials
IGN-4-31-01-1986: PVC-U pipes
WIS-4-31-06-1994: PVC-U pipe
WIS-4-31-07-1994: PVC-U fittings
WIS-4-31-08-1991: MOPVC pipe
WIS 4-32-03-1987: Specification for blue polyethylene (PE) pressure pipe for cold potable
water (nominal sizes 90-1000 for underground or protected use)
610   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves


WIS 4-32-06-1989" Specification for polyethylene electrofusion couplers and fittings for
cold potable water supply for nominal sizes up to and including 180
WIS 4-32-O8-1989: Specification for site fusion jointing of PE80 and PE100 pipe and fittings
WlS 4-32-09-1991: Specification for black polyethylene pressure pipes for above ground
or sewerage (nominal sizes 90-1000)
WlS 4-32-13-1993: Specification for blue higher performance polyethylene, HPPE/
PE100, pressure pipes nominal sizes 90-1000 for underground or protected use for the
conveyance of water intended for human consumption
WIS 4-32-14-1995: Specification for PE80 and PE100 electrofusion fittings for cold water
supply for nominal sizes up to and including 630
WlS 4-32-15-1995: Specification for PE80 and PE100 spigot fittings and drawn bends for
nominal sizes up to and including 1000
IGN 4-37-02: Design against surge and fatigue conditions for thermoplastic pipes

British Standards, London
BS EN 512: Asbestos cement pipes
BS EN 545: Ductile iron pipes, fittings, accessories and joints for water pipelines-
Requirements and test methods
BS EN 593:1998 Butterfly valves
BS EN 681-1: Elastomeric seals - material requirements for pipe joint seals
   Part 1 Vulcanised rubber, including amendment A1, 1998
BS EN 1092: Flanges
BS EN 1295-1: Structural design of buffed pipelines under various conditions of loading, 1998
BS EN 60534-2-3: 1998, Industrial process control valves
BS 534: Steel pipes, joints and specials for water and sewage, 1990
BS 3505: Unplasticised PVC pressure pipes for cold potable water, 1986
BS 3600: Specification for dimensions and masses per unit length of welded and seamless
steel pipes and tubes for pressure purposes
BS 3601: Steel Pipes and Tubes for Pressure Purposes, 1987
BS 4504: Section 3.1 Flanges and Bolting for Pipes,
BS 4625: Pre-stressed concrete pressure pipes, 1970
BS 5163: Sluice valves for waterworks purposes
BS 5480: Glass Reinforced Plastics (GRP) Pipes, Joints and Fittings, 1990
BS 5500: Specification for unfired fusion welded pressure vessels
BS 6349: Maritime structures
   Part 1: General criteria
   Part 7: Guide to the design and construction of breakwaters
BS 7079: Preparation of steel substrates before application of paints and related products
BS 7361: Cathodic protection
BS 8010: Code of Practice for Pipelines
   Part 1: Pipelines on land: general, 1989
   Part 2: Pipelines on land: design, construction and installation:
      Section 2.1 Ductile Iron, 1987
      Section 2.2 Steel (for water and associated products) (not published)
      Section 2.3 Asbestos Cement, 1988
      Section 2.4 Pre-stressed Concrete Pressure Pipelines, 1988
      Section 2.5 Glass Reinforced Thermosetting Plastics, 1989
                                                                             Bibliography 611

    Section 2.6 PVC (/n draft)
    Section 2.7 Pre-cast concrete, 1989
    Section 2.8 Steel (for oil, gas and associated products), 1992
  Part 3: Pipelines subsea: design construction and installation, 1993
CP 312: Code of Practice for Plastics Pipework
  Part 1: General principles and choice of material
  Part 2: Unplasticised PVC pipework
  Part 3: Polyethylene pipes
CP 2010: Code of Practice for Pipelines
  Part 2: Design and construction of steel pipelines on land, 1970

European standards
EN ISO 12162: 1995, Thermoplastics materials for pipes and fittings for pressure
applications - Classification and designation - Overall service (design) coefficient

European standards in preparation
pr EN 805: Water supply- Requirements for systems and components outside buildings
pr EN 1452: Plastics piping systems for water supply- unplasticised poly vinyl chloride (7 parts)
pr EN 10224: Steel pipes, joints and fittings for the conveyance of aqueous liquids
including potable water
prEN 12201: Plastics piping systems for water supply, polyethylene.

American Waterworks Association (AWWA)
AWWA M9: Concrete pressure pipe
AWWA M 11 Manual: Steel P i p e - A Guide for Design and Installation
AWWA M45: Fiberglass pipe design
AWWA C205: Cement-mortar protective lining and coating for steel water p i p e - 4 in
(100 mm) and larger- shop applied
AWWA C602: Cement-mortar lining of water pipelines in p l a c e - 4 in (100 mm) and
larger
AWWA C906-90: PE pressure pipe and fittings
AWWA C950: Fiberglass pressure pipe

American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME)
ASME B31.4: Liquid transportation systems for hydrocarbons (etc.), 1992
ASME B31.8: Gas transmission and distribution piping systems, 1992

American Petroleum Institute (API)
API 5L: Specification for line pipe

Construction Industry Research and Information Association (CIRIA), London
Thrust blocks for buried pressure pipelines, Report 128, 1994
Design and construction of buried thin walled pipes, Report 78, 1978
612   Pipes, pipeline construction and valves

Manual on the use of rock for in coastal and shoreline engineering, CIRIA special
publication 83/CUR report 154, 1991

US Army Corps of Engineers
Shore Protection manual, 1984, Vols I and II. Coastal Engineering Research Centre. US
Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402

Permanent International Association of Navigation Congresses (PIANC)
Guidelines for the design of armoured slopes under open piled quay walls, Report of
Working Group No. 22 of the Permanent Technical Committee II, Supplement to Bulletin
No. 96, 1997 (October).

Det Norske Veritas (DNV), Oslo
Rules for submarine pipeline systems, 1996


References
  1. Young O. C. and O'Reilly M. P. Simplified Tables of External Loads on Buried
     Pipelines. HMSO, London, 1986.
  2. Young O.C. and O'Reilly M. P. A Guide to Design Loadings for Buried Rigid Pipes.
     HMSO, London, 1983.
  3. Clarke N. W. B. Pipelines- A Manual for Structural Design and Installation, 1968.
  4. Janson L.-E. Plastics Pipes for Water Supply and Sewage Disposal. Borealis,
     Stockholm, 1995.
  5. Little M. J. New Pipelines on Land and Across Hong Kong Harbour. JIWES, June
     1986, pp. 271-287.
  6. Little M. J. and Duxbury J. A. Tolo channel submarine pipelines, Hong Kong. Proc
     ICE, Part 1, 1989, pp. 395-412.
  7. Ervine, D. A. Air Entrainment in Hydraulic Structures: A Review, Proc ICE, Water,
     Marit & Energy, 1998, 130, Sept., pp. 142-153.
  8. United States Department of the Interior. Engineering monograph No. 41, Air-Water
     Flow in Hydraulic Systems.
  9. Lescovitch J. E. Locating and Sizing Air Release Valves. JAWWA, Water
     Technology/Distribution, July 1972.
 10. Edmunds R. C. Air Binding in Pipes. JAWWA, Water Technology/Distribution,
     May 1979.
 11. Kalinske A. A. and Robertson J. M. Closed Conduit Flow, Transactions ASCE, 108,
     pp. 1435-1516.
 12. Liseth P. Luft i utsslippsledninger (Air in outfalls), Prosjektkomite6n for rensing av
     avlopsvann, PRA report 8, NIVA (Norwegian Water Institute), Oslo, 1975 (in
     Norwegian).
                                          14
   Pipeline and distribution
 system design and ana ysis

14.1    Introduction
The pipelines of a distribution system can be divided into three functional categories:
(1) trunk mains which convey water in bulk from the source, usually to a service reservoir;
(2) principal feeder mains, or principal mains, which convey relatively large quantities of
    water from the service reservoir into demand areas;
(3) distribution mains which supply water to consumers' connections.
Trunk mains supply the daily quantity of water required and have relatively constant flow
rates because the service reservoir storage is used to even-out the hourly changes of
demand over 24 hours. However there will be day-to-day variations of demand and trunk
pipelines must be designed to carry the maximum day demand because this often extends
with little change over a week or more (see Figure 1.5). Such maximum demands are
frequently in the range 120-140% of the annual average daily demand. Consideration may
also have to be given to the possible use of a trunk main for re-routing supplies should
some other trunk main suffer a burst, and for use of the main for transfer of water between
zones of the distribution system to achieve a balanced storage in service reservoirs on a
weekly cycle of demand.
   Principal feeder mains are designed for peak hour demands but, because they normally
convey water to large areas, the peak hourly factor applying to them is less than that
applying to individual distribution mains because a 'diversity factor' applies, related to the
size of the area served (see Section 1.24).
   Distribution mains are designed to meet the hourly variation of consumers' demand,
which, as Section 1.25 indicates can vary between 200 and 300% or more of the annual
average annual daily demand. A typical hourly variation of demand over 24 hours is
shown in Section 11.2. Urban, industrial and rural distribution systems exhibit different
diurnal demand patterns which also vary from one year to the next. The system must have
adequate pressures to meet the peak hour demand, but at night, during low demand
periods, pressures need to be kept as low as practicable to minimise leakage. A good
interconnection of distribution mains is desirable with dead ends eliminated wherever
practical, in order to avoid long detention times for the water within the mains, which can
result in water quality deterioration. Exceptionally high flow rates and reversals of flow in
mains also need to be avoided where possible, because they can cause water quality
deterioration through scour and suspension of interior water main deposits.
614 Pipeline and distribution system design and analysis


14.2    Asset management of pipeline
The pipelines of the distribution system normally comprise the largest capital asset an
undertaking possesses. The cost of maintaining this asset in good condition has now
become a major financial consideration for water undertakings for several reasons. First,
the long life of pipelines, 60-100 years, has meant the problem has not been urgent in the
past, but with many mains now approaching their serviceable life, the high cost of their
rehabilitation or replacement is now seen as a large financial liability lying ahead. Second,
the privatisation of undertakings in England and Wales has meant that, instead of relying
on public funding as and when necessary to replace mains, the companies must fund asset
renewals from their own resources. Third, stricter requirements concerning levels of service
that must be provided to consumers imposed under privatisation (see Section 14.3), and
stricter water quality requirements under EU and UK legislation, have meant extra
measures have been necessary to ensure the condition of the distribution system does not
cause the quality of the water to deteriorate before it reaches consumers. These
requirements apply equally to the growing number of cases where private companies have
been engaged to operate water undertakings under concessionary agreements (see Section
2.10).
   It was a condition of the appointment of private water companies in England and Wales
in 1989, when the water industry was privatised, that they should base their capital
expenditure programme on an 'asset management plan'. Such plans were required to
estimate the yearly expenditure necessary to maintain the underground assets in a
condition sufficient for the company to meet its obligations for a period of not less than 15
years ahead. In practice a 20-year period divided in 5-year periods is used, the first 5-year
plan being produced in detail. As a consequence the companies now produce asset
condition assessments, which forecast the cost liability such assets pose as their
performance or condition deteriorates, or their current hydraulic capacity is insufficient
to meet foreseeable rises of demand. The assessment process takes into account the type,
age, condition, leakage and burst frequency of mains; their flow, pressure and water
quality performance, and hence the potential length of asset life remaining and when the
need for rehabilitation or replacement is likely to occur. For the distribution system alone,
the work of asset assessment represents a task of considerable magnitude because of the
thousands of kilometres of mains involved and also the need to take account of the state of
control valves, pumping and treatment equipment, etc..
   To aid the work, comprehensive mains record drawings are increasingly held on
electronic mapping systems. Pipework data and system performance information may also
be held electronically in one or more databases. Data management and processing
 activities can be simplified and analysis conclusions more easily derived if the mapping and
 databases are integrated within a single geographic information system (GIS). Further
comments on this use of computer software for analysing the behaviour of a distribution
 system are given in Sections 14.14 and 14.15 below.
   Asset management planning of a distribution system necessitates the study of many
 options. Water mains can be refurbished in a number of ways (see Sections 15.8 and 15.9);
 but it may be more economical in the long term to replace an old main with a larger one
 which will meet forecasted rising demand and last for a longer period. Re-routing of
 pipeline flows may offer other alternatives. New mains can bring benefits in reducing
 leakage, improving pressures, and reducing bursts. Economic studies can also lead to other
 solutions, such as upgrading or automating pumping plant, or adopting some re-zoning of
                                                                    14.3 Service levels 615

supplies. The latter can promote better pressure regimes, aid leak detection measures, and
reduce problems of water quality deterioration through the distribution mains. All this
work has to repeated at intervals to keep the asset renewal plans and costs up-to-date.


14.3    Service levels
Service levels are the standards of supply which a water undertaking affords its customers.
The standards can be targets for achievement set by a water undertaking for itself, or set
by some outside authority, such as the service targets set by the Director General of Water
Services (OFWAT) for the privatised water companies in England and Wales. Levels of
service are often set by, or agreed with, international funding agencies such as the World
Bank, to define what some programme of rehabilitation or improvement of an
undertaking should achieve. Records of how far such levels of service have been achieved
in any year can act as performance indicators.
   The three principal levels of service which relate to the performance of distribution
systems are the following.
   Hydraulic performance defines the minimum pressure and flow domestic consumers
should experience. The reference level of service required by OFWAT when demand is not
abnormal is a flow of 9 l/rain at a pressure of 10 m head on the customer's side of the main
stop tap (at the property boundary). In practice the pressure is difficult to measure at this
point and therefore a 'surrogate' pressure of 15 m in the main supplying the property may
be used. The use of lower surrogate pressures is acceptable only where justified with
supporting evidence. Where two properties are supplied through a common service pipe
the pressure reference level is the same for twice the flow. For common services feeding
more than two properties, the increase in minimum mains pressure is linked to the size of
the common service, number of properties supplied and the concept of 'loading units'
defined in BS 6700.1'2
   Continuity of supply is measured by the number, duration and circumstances relating to
interruptions or deficiencies of supply. OFWAT uses a scoring system for assessing water
companies' performance in England and Wales. The undertaking is required to report the
number of properties affected by interruptions to supply of more than 6, 12 and 24 hours
by the four categories of:
9   unplanned interruptions due to bursts, etc.;
9   planned and warned interruptions due to planned maintenance, new connections, etc.;
9   unplanned interruptions caused by a third party, for example another utility
    damaging a water pipe while excavating for their own service; and
9   unplanned interruption due to overrun of a planned and warned interruption.
Under certain circumstances customers affected are entitled to financial compensation,
typically s for each event plus a further s for each 24-hour period the supply remains
interrupted.
   The Director General of OFWAT has also stated the maximum frequency he thinks is
acceptable for restrictions of supply to consumers by water companies in England and
Wales, e.g. hosepipe bans not more than once in 10 years, restriction on non-essential uses
of water once in 20 years, and so on - details are given in Section 3.15. However these
targets are not mandatory and during recent droughts hosepipe bans have been imposed
by a number of the undertakings.
616 Pipeline and distribution system design and analysis

   It should be appreciated that the requirements quoted above apply to privatised watel
companies in England and Wales. Similar targets can be appropriate where the operatior
and maintenance activities of a public water supply system have been contracted out to
company or private firm for a term of years. Where water supply undertakings are publicl5
owned (as in the majority of cases throughout the world), similar target service levels ma3
be the aim, but their achievement is often not possible in many instances because of lack ol
resources. For the many water undertakings in countries which are not able to afford a 24-
hour supply, a frequent aim is to achieve 4-hour supply morning and evening, witk
standpipes for low income householders being widely used.
    Water quality standards. Standards for the quality of water supplied, together wiff
sampling and reporting requirements are set by legislation in most of the developed
countries (see Section 6.47). They universally apply to the water reaching consumers' taps
Hence though the quality of water leaving a treatment works may be acceptable, an)
decline of quality as it passes through the distribution system must be taken into account
All waters contain nutrients and long retention in mains can promote 'aftergrowth', i.e
increase of bacteria and small organisms in the mains. Taste, odours, and suspendec
matter in the water can occur. Thus, the design of the distribution system has to minimis~
these effects by ensuring good circulation of water, flow velocities kept within ar
acceptable range, short retention times, and cleanliness of the interior of mains. Sometime,
it is found necessary to add a further disinfectant (usually chlorine) to the water at servic~
reservoirs in order to inhibit aftergrowth in mains.
    To assist in meeting the above requirements, particularly for the maintenance of wate~
quality, water companies in UK are increasingly reorganising their distribution network,~
into separate 'stable' supply areas. Each area is preferably fed by only one source; but il
two sources of different waters have to be used, the supplies need first to be blended in
predefined ratio to obtain a consistent water quality. Flows into an area and pressure,
within it need to be monitored and controlled to ensure adequate supplies to consumer~,
and to aid leakage and waste detection measures. The operation of boundary valve,
connecting to adjacent areas and key valves may need to be put under control, in order tc
prevent unauthorised changes of valve setting affecting the quality of the supply.


14.4     Factors in pipeline design
It is often necessary to decide what size of main to lay to meet an estimated new or extr~
demand and its possible increase in the future. If the choice of diameter proves too small,
second main may have to be laid some years later; hence one needs to know for how man3
years ahead a new main should be laid.
   For a given hydraulic gradient, the flow, Q, through a circular pipe is proportional tc
d ~, where d is the diameter and x has a value of 2.65 according to the Hazen-William,
formula (see Section 10.5). Hence increasing the diameter of a pipe by only 30% double,
its flow capacity. Consequently if it is thought the initial demand, Q, on a pipeline mighl
double in n years' time, the question is whether to lay a pipeline for 2Q now, or lay one foJ
Q now and duplicate it in n years' time. Since pipeline costs are roughly proportional tc
diameter up to about 600 mm diameter (provided wall thickness are also proportional), il
is only worthwhile duplicating a main if the 'present value' (see Section 2.16) oJ
duplication is less than the present value of the main for 2Q now. For this to be so
         (Present value) s   + s       + r)" <_ 1.3s
                                                                14.5 Pipeline planning   617

where s is the cost of a main for Q; n is the number of years before the duplicate main is
required; and r is the discount rate. This gives:

         1/(1 + r)" _< 0.3

which shows that, for a discount rate of 8% n must > 15 years; for 10% n > 12 years; and
for 12% n > 10 years.
   Such a calculation is only one factor to be taken into account when deciding what policy
to follow. Many other considerations apply such as:
9   the difficulty of forecasting future demand and its rate of rise;
9   whether routes are possible for two pipelines, or the second might have to be longer;
9   whether two pipelines would offer better security for maintenance of supplies;
9   and various further factors discussed in Sections 14.5-14.7.


14.5     Pipeline planning
In pipeline planning to meet future demand increases it may be advantageous to lay a
pipeline in two lengths of different diameter. For example in the case illustrated in Fig.
14.1, existing sources (1), (2) and (3) feed water into the principal network shown. A new
source (4) is proposed to bring, say, another 80 ml/day into the urban area via pipeline
AB. Possible areas of substantial growth of demand are labelled D1, D2, ..., D5 but, as
often occurs in practice, it is uncertain to what extent each will develop and in what order.
   If it is not known whether the most of the future extra demand will arise to the east or
the west of the present system, it could be a false move to lay the pipeline for the full


                  (New source) 4~) A                 Alternative (a)            A




                                                               B'___
                                                                                ~B
                                                                       40

                                                     Alternative (b)        A



                                                                                c

               /
              I


Fig. 14.1 Trunk mains alternatives.
618 Pipel&e and distribution system design and analys&

80 M1/day to point B on the east (alternative (a) in Fig. 14.1). In that case, extra demand
on the west side (areas D1, D2, D5) would have to be met through existing main BB',
increasing the loss of head to B' and perhaps making it necessary to lay an extra main
along BB'. A better strategy is to bifurcate the main at C, so that additional supplies can
be provided at both B and B', the existing pipeline BB' need then only carry the imbalance
of demand on either leg. A ring main is formed which is always advantageous in ensuring
at least some supply if there is burst on either part of the ring, and pressures are
maintained better.
   Pipeline planning comprises finding a strategy that best covers all the reasonably
feasible demand options, maintaining flexibility in case development does not follow the
current predictions. For this purpose ring main formations, and avoidance of any need to
duplicate mains back to the source later, are useful precautions. The various alternatives
have to be worked out, taking into account such matters as proposed development plans
for new housing and industry, where uncontrolled developments might occur, the peak
outputs of existing sources and differences in their production costs, possible locations for
future sources, service reservoir capacities and fire risks. There is also the need to plan for
separate or 'discrete' zones or district areas, fed only by one type of water so that water
quality problems can be better controlled, and preferably supplied only by one or two
mains which are metered so that distribution losses can be monitored. The exercise can be
complex, involving a logical analysis of all the options to devise the best solution.



14.6     Design of a pumping main
A pumping main commonly delivers water from a pumping station to a service reservoir,
and is therefore usually operated at a constant flow rate, the output being managed by
varying the hours of pumping. The designer aims to find the diameter of main for which
the total of capital expenditure on pumping plant and pipeline together with the cost of
power consumption and other operating costs is a minimum. The following simplified
example shows the type of approach used.
   Example. A main is to convey 20 M1/day (average) and 22.5 M1/day (maximum) against
a static lift of 55 m through 16 km of main (see Fig. 14.2). Costs are: pipeline s   per
mm diameter per m laid in rural conditions; pumps s          per kW installed with 50%
standby required; power 4.5 pence/kWh. Capital repayment charges assumed 12%, and


                                                                             Reservoir



                             22.5 ~ x i m u m )             "   "
         station



         Average
         pumping le
                                                  - 16kin




Fig. 14.2 Example for pumping main calculations.
                                                            14.6 Design o f a pumping main      619


friction coefficient of the pipeline k = 0.5 m m and water viscosity at 15~                 in the
Colebrook-White formula.

                                           Diameter of main (mm)
                                            500      600    700    Notes
    (a) Static lift (m)                      55       55     55
    (b) Friction loss at 20 M1/day (m)       46       18      8
    (c) Friction loss at 22.5 Ml/day (m)     59       22     10
    (d) Maximum water power (kW)            287      197    166    *22.5 M1/day at head (a + c)
    (e) Installed motor power (kW)          590      406    341    Allow for 73% efficiency of (d)
                                                                   + 50% standby
    (f) Average power used (kWh)            313      226    196    *20 M1/day at head (a + b)
                                                                   at 73% efficiency
    Capital costs: (s 1000)
-     pipeline                             2800     3360   3920
-     pumps                                1771     1217   1024
Total capital cost                         4571     4577   4944
Annual costs: (s          per annum)
-     12% on capital                        549      549    593
- p o w e r at 4.5p/kWh                     123       89     77    (/)  24  365 at s
Total annual costs                          672      638    670
    Present value cost for 25 years at 12% discount: (s
-     Initial capital                      4574     4577   4944
-     Renewal of pumps at 20 years          184      126    106    Note (1)
- Power costs for 25 years                 1016      735    636    Note (2)
Total present value                        5774     5438   5686

Notes.
*Power in kW = 0.1135Qh where Q is in M1/day and h is in metres.
(1) PV = Cost  1/(1 + r) 2~ where r = 0.12 (see Sections 2.14 and 2.16).
(2) PV = annual power cost  [(1 + r) 25 - 1]/r(1 + r)25]. The limit is taken as 25 years because
longer forecasts are of doubtful validity.

  Both methods of comparison, annual cost and present value cost, show the 600 m m
main is cheapest, although the difference is not large. In practice a more detailed analysis
would be adopted to allow for:

9      the growth of flow over years 1-25;
9      the probable increase of pipeline friction with time;
9      more accurate costing of pipelines, pump, valves, electrical and surge protection
       equipment, etc. and inclusion of their maintenance costs;
9      the effect of any possible future increased price of power;
9      actual expected terms for capital repayment.

Using a spreadsheet or a programmable calculator, the calculations can be extended to
evaluate the optimum year for possible phasings and for a range of different parameter
values.
620    Pipeline and distribution system design and analysis

   There will be other strategic options to consider, such as alternative demand forecasts,
possible phasing of capital expenditure, whether high efficiency pumps, or full automation
would be worthwhile, and so on. The choice of the preferred solution may only emerge
after consultation with the client and specialists to ensure that no hidden engineering or
operational problems are overlooked, the route for the proposed pipeline should be
walked to see that it is practicable, and some preliminary layout drawings may be
necessary to ensure the costing is realistic.



14.7     Comments on the use of discounting
Sections 2.16 and 2.17 set out some of the problems of discounting. A high rate of discount
devalues future expenditure more than a low rate of discount. Hence high discount rates
tend to favour schemes that have low initial capital cost even though this may increase
later running costs. This can be justified on the basis that high discount rates occur when
capital is scarce; and when capital is scarce it is not unreasonable to require projects to be
economical in their use of capital funds. However, discounting is becoming less frequently
used in the U K because the method makes assumptions about future costs which are not
borne out by events. For example the relationship between capital and operating costs
may be different in the future from that pertaining at present. New manufacturing
techniques can keep rises in plant and building costs down, but social changes can cause
labour costs to rise proportionately more. Thus a project which is chosen because it is the
'most economical' in terms of its 'present value' at present-day costs, can prove less
economical when relative prices change.
   Of course present value calculations can be based on a range of discounts, and possible
future changes in relative costs can also be tried out. Although this results in a less precise
answer, it can reveal projects which are unlikely to be economic under any reasonably
foreseeable circumstances and which can therefore be eliminated from further considera-
tion. It can also show how some policy of rephasing or redesign can offer a financial
advantage. Thus discounting is an aid to decision-making, not the basis of it. In practice a
legion of other factors usually determine the choice of scheme, such as its environmental
consequences, or in many cases 'how much can be afforded now?' (another form of
'present value' estimating). Discounting is useful, but not the arbiter of choice. Over-riding
it are many technical matters that need to be taken into account.



14.8     Design of a gravity main
This section illustrates the design of a gravity trunk main connecting an impounding
reservoir to a service reservoir.
   Example. The proposed impounding reservoir 30 m deep will have a top water level of
410 m OD. From this reservoir 60 ml/day is to pass through rapid gravity filters located at
the foot of the dam and then into a balancing reservoir beneath. From the balancing
reservoir the water is to be conveyed 35 km to a service reservoir from which a distribution
system of 4 km extent is fed. The ground elevations of the distribution system vary from
10 to 50 m OD. The distribution pipes are suitable for 100 m head working head. The
proposed pipe profile and leading dimensions are given in Fig. 14.3.
   The conditions at the headworks are therefore:
                                                             14.8 Design o f a gravity main   621



    Minimum level in impounding reservoir                                             380 m OD
less
- loss through filters                                          5m
- loss through balancing tank                                   4m
- allowance for other local losses                              4m
    Total losses                                               13m
    Head at inlet of trunk main                                                       367 m OD

  At the downstream end of the gravity trunk main the water level in the service reservoir
needs to be between the following limits

                      Minimum water level
                      Minimum service level pressure required                          35m
                      Maximum ground level in supply area                              50m OD
                      Assume distribution losses @ 1.5 m/1000 m for 4 km                6m
                      Hence service reservoir minimum bottom water level               91 m O D

                      Maximum water level
                      Maximum pipe working pressure                                   100 m
                      Minimum ground level in supply area                              10m OD
                      Hence service reservoir maximum top water level                 ll0mOD

   A site for a service reservoir must therefore be found where the top water level can be
not higher than 110 m O D and the bottom water level is not below 91 m OD. An elevation
nearer the upper limit would be prudent in order to provide spare head on the distribution
system to allow for unexpected growth in demand. Hence a service reservoir top water
level of 110 m OD is taken.
   The trunk main conditions are therefore:

    Head at inlet to gravity main                                                     367 m OD
    Inlet level to service reservoir                             110
    Allow for service reservoir inlet losses, say                  6                  ll6mOD
    Hence allowable loss in 35 km trunk main                                          251 m

     This amount of head loss is very high, raising the following problems:

9       the lower end of the pipeline would come under 251 m static head, necessitating
        expensive pipes;
9       the control and stop valves at the reservoir inlet would be expensive because of the
        high pressure;
9       a back-up inlet control valve would be necessary for safety;
9       a break on the pipeline would cause a high velocity discharge posing a significant risk
        to public safety and property.

A break-pressure tank is therefore necessary. To choose a location for it the hydraulic
gradient for maximum flow must be drawn on a profile of the main for an assumed
diameter of pipe. For a flow of 60 M1/day and an available head of 7.2 m / k m (251 m/
            4s0
                    /   Reservoir
            400 ~ / "   / Filters and balancing tank
                I== _ ~                                                                                                                          Static OD level of 367m at headworks
                                                           .        .   .    .       .                                                       .     .   .         .      .     .      .   .       .       .   .   .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T
                    Note small head herer          ~                        ~ -- ~         u rnrn
                    Size of main must not be           ~                                 ~ ~ ~.~rna~/n               |        I  Static head to be broken by break-pressure tank                                                                             /
            300 - t o o small or negative                  ~                                         ~ ~           _ I B ~                                                                                                                                   |
                    pressure will develop                  ~                                                       ~ " ~ j 7 ~ ~ -~. / W o r k i n g head to be broken by break-pressure tank                                                                /



       E                                                   ~                                                         I ~                                                                     ~           ~                                     257m

       0    2                                                                                                        I I        f Site for break-pressure tank                                                                    -- -- ~ ~     (excessive)

       "~

            .__
            ] bU
                             and similar points
                             and "similar points                                 Br e a k - p r e s s ~ : ~
                                                                                 possible at any ot these
                                                                                                                           ~..-=~
                                                                                                                                       ~
                                                                                                                                       -~.
                                                                                                                                             --
                                                                                                                                                  Ydra
                                                                                                                                                   ~

                                                                                                                                                 ~/e
                                                                                                                                                           ~C
                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                      grad.
                                                                                                                                                                     "~ ~-le~.nt ~.700 rnrn ,,_.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I

                                                                                                                                                                                                           Maximum static head on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               --    --

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |



                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~ "~am main     t h break-p r essuretan k |
                                                                                                                                                                                                              " w't
                                                                                 points                                                           ~                                                   --';2/" ----                         /

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~   ~                  C



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To distribution
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    system
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (OD 10 to 50m)
                         I          I          I               !,                I         i          I       I             i          1               I,                         I,,,               I               i       1            I          l
                0        2          4          6           8                 10           12        14        16           18         20               22                     24             26                      28      30           32        34
                                                                                                                     Kilometres



Fig. 14.3   Considerations in the design of a gravity main.
                                                       14.9 Source and pipeline layouts    623


35 km) a pipeline of at least 700 mm diameter would be required.

                 Loss of head through 700mm pipeline at 60 M1/day
                   at ks - 0.75 mm (in Colebrook-White formula)   = 5.0 m / k m

                   Required head at service reservoir inlet 110 twl
                                                                    =ll6mOD
                           +6 m loss through inlet valve

The hydraulic gradient at a slope of 5.0 m/km drawn upstream from 116 m OD at the
service reservoir inlet shows that a break-pressure tank could be sited at h, g, or f, (but not
at j). Which of the possible locations to choose depends on the profile of the main. In the
case shown, f is chosen because it most nearly equalises the maximum static heads on the
mains upstream and downstream of the tank. This means that pipes and valves of the same
class strength can be used in both sections o f main.
   The investigation may need to be repeated for another size of main and to assess the
costs of various alternatives. Cost will probably favour the smallest practicable diameter
main, but the high velocity of flow in it means that it has practically no further carrying
capacity so that a larger diameter main may be preferred. Other alternatives can be
considered, such as relocating the treatment works closer to the service reservoir. However
the main would then carry raw water between the impounding reservoir and the treatment
works, and it might need to be slightly larger diameter or be concrete lined to allow for any
reduction in carrying capacity due to carrying raw water. The raw water pipeline would
also need to be sized for the additional usage at the treatment works for process water and
cleaning.
   An example of a break-pressure tank is shown in Fig. 14.4. One point that should be
mentioned is that a break-pressure tank should not be provided with a by-pass, to make it
impossible to bring too a high a pressure on the downstream length of pipeline which
could have disastrous results. Instead the tank should have duplicate compartments to
permit maintenance.


14.9     Source and pipeline layouts
The most economic layout for a supply system is to locate a service reservoir as near as
technically feasible to the distribution area it serves, as shown in Fig. 14.5(a). Because the
service reservoir evens out the peak demands for water, the further the service reservoir is
from the distribution area, the longer must be the lengths of main designed for peak hourly
rates of flow and, as Fig 14.5(b) shows, the more costly is the system. A service reservoir
close to the distribution area provides advantages when maintaining supplies under
emergency conditions and for fire-fighting. It also helps to reduce pressure fluctuations in
the distribution system and aids economic development of the system. Nevertheless there
are occasions where the configuration of the land makes it impossible to comply with this
arrangement.
   If the service reservoir cannot be sited close the distribution area, the most desirable
layout in these circumstances is to have at least two major delivery mains from the
reservoir, connected together at their extremities to form a ring main through the
distribution area (Fig. 14.5c). By this means not only will the system be able to cope more
effectively with peak rates of flow but, in addition, should a repair be necessary on one
main, at least some flow can be maintained to the distribution system.
624   Pipeline and distribution system design and analysis


                                                                           .,
                                                                                                      225mm     ~                        ,.-                     _




                                  ~ ~        / Needl                                                                                           ~JOverflow r1"-~\
                                     .U.~~J~    float valve
                                                     Jl .                                                                                      B drain I Ill \ \
                A       . , ~ J - - ~         300mmbypass                                                                                      "        ~        X~                         A
                 L.=.                   .                              ',,,                 -~_                 ' .... , : - . - - : -         '~ -.'_-"         " "-Lr"       -
            38mmvaiveand~L~-~ ~                    I Iverr~176         2.74m1:!il / ~
            fl~ val&mm valve w~is 1~ m F e e d               pipe'~4 '    ' 1:~'/~~,~,,
                                 ' ~-----'ffl==~ I    I        " .~L ~          ~-225 mm
                   extension rod        t~=.,~,~ p-~'l-6.0m         ~-     ^ PAl- /~
                                                    1:ore,~~ !~,'n~~e
                                                            225mm"H Y 4 ~          /~Flap valve
                                                    F,o,               "                          225'mm'                   -




                                                                                                                            Perforated
                                                                                                                            wall ~.                   150mm,

                                    Air release
                                          . ~ ~j: " ~ _ i:;'
                                                        ~,,i~W
                                                             I.__
                                                               ' -_..~~. ~3.~
                                                                         . .i:. . m~=_. TWLI I L .L~. . . ._ ~ '. . . . .                                                          ~"       "
                                                          ,                         '                 ;_.-_~_               __-_-__-~__.-: _~~:



                        Sectional elevation A - A


                                 Scale
                        0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10m
                         I          I       I   I     t       ,,   I            i       t         i         I       9




Fig. 14.4     A break-pressure tank.




                            Pipeline designedfor
                            120%averagedemand                                                                                                                                      . Only high.
                Source~/ ~ "": ' i-~'"~'         Source(~ 'v./                                                                                             Source                  r~,ground
                                                                                                                                                                            ~------,~/available~
                     /         "~. E:,!;i;J       120%\ ' ~                    '
                                                              -, , ~,./.~                                                                                            Service?..~:~/~
                     | ,1, f / ,. "~
                            / ,_,~     ",.:/i)
                                   ~,,.'   ",'1
                                    ,-':.:/,~     average ~\.,,'.-.. ,~..,!,.~
                                                  demand ) \ .....~:,:~j                                                                                             reservoir/~-~
                             I ,/       ,'.~ ,//.:.'~                                                    , ~ ,,,, ;//,
                        11 [ ' :;'~ ~;,;~Z                                          Service            ~:...:.~,y                                   Twin trunk
                        '1I/,!.V..,.
                               \v.."""~/
                                   " :s,;,~//2"
                                       +"~f~]                                       reserv~                                     "/                  feeders    /                        I

                      /."~, ;. ~:~ Service
                     / Ji~,/,.:,//~
                         9 ,        reservoir
                                                      /~'~
                                                 [ii~ .!::'av'
                                                           ~,:.~//~
                                                               i:!:~1(/~250%
                     v~~ipeline designedfor ~"~,~;S);~'"""':t,/"///4'
                                                                         erage demand                                                                                //'
                       -~'~" ~250% averagedemand - ' - ' [                                                                                                       Ring main
                    / UF4 \
               Distribution system
                                                                                        /
                                                                                Distribution system
                                                                                                                        \                                   /
                                                                                                                                                      Distribution system
                                                                                                                                                                               \
                             I                                                          ~               I               \                                   /'         I     '\
                 (a) Economic                                                   (b) Uneconomic                                                                        (c)


Fig. 14.5 Distribution system feeds: (a) single main feed and (b) use of ring main.
                                                                     14.9 Source and pipeline layouts         625


   A 'rise-and-fall' ma& can be adopted where the only possible siting of a service reservoir
is further away from the distribution system than is the source of water. Figure 14.6(a)
illustrates such a scheme. If the rate of output from the source is equal to the average daily
supply, water flows out of the service reservoir whenever the demand rate exceeds the
average and flows into the reservoir when demand is less than the average. Alternatively, if
the source output is made sufficiently large to fill the reservoir during the day shifts,
(typically from 06.00 to 22.00), when pumping ceases the distribution area is fed only by
the service reservoir. This lowers distribution pressure during the hours 22.00-06.00, thus
reducing night-time losses. However the design needs to ensure an adequate turnover of
water in the reservoir to prevent water quality problems arising, particularly during
periods of low demand. This type of system can be analysed using extended period
(dynamic) hydraulic modelling to optimise the pumping and storage requirements, and
ensure the age of the water, particularly at the reservoir, does not become excessive and
hence require additional local disinfection facilities.
   Elevated storage is often necessary on flat ground and an arrangement similar to that
shown in Fig. 14.6(b) can then be adopted. As shown, the main to the elevated storage is a
rise-and-fall main. If, however, the pump delivers water to the top of the tank the
distribution system is at all times fed by gravity from the tank. In either case a float-
operated valve can prevent the elevated tank from overflowing and water level sensors in it
can control the number of pumps running, or their output, to keep the supply roughly in
step with demand. The advantage of the rise-and-fall main is that, during pumping, a
higher head can be maintained in the distribution system than is possible by gravity alone
from the elevated tank which is costly if constructed more than about 30 m high.
   A pressure sustaining valve could, in fact, be used to achieve the same effect without the
use of an elevated tank, but even a small elevated tank is to be preferred because it permits
water level control of the pumps which is simple and reliable in operation. Without
storage, the pump output must be controlled by monitoring the flow or pressure in the
mains feeding the distribution system. This is more difficult to set up and manage, and


                          ~///Z4/4///////////
                           ~//,/~High V///////



                 Service~
                 reservoir

                                   IRise-and-fall m a i n



                Source0                                                          ]~     - ]Elevated
                                                                                 L . ~ ~ storage
                                                                                                Rise-and-
                                                            Ground-level          /~=~~fal        I main
                                                            storage
                                                            ~               ~           ~     ~   "       ,

                          Distribution system                                               To distribution
                                  (a)                                      (b)

Fig. 14.6 (a) A rise-and-fallmain supply, (b) use of elevatedstorage.
626   Pipeline and distribution system design and analysis

requires considerably more regular maintenance and understanding of demands and how
they vary diurnally if the system is to be operated efficiently.
   Elevated storage is expensive to construct, hence it is seldom possible to provide the
same amount of this type of storage as is usually provided when ground-level storage can
be constructed. As a consequence both ground-level and elevated storage may be provided
at a source in flat country, with the ground-level storage providing the larger capacity. To
ensure that the reserve supply in the ground-level tank can be used at all times the transfer
pumps to the elevated storage usually have 50% standby capacity or more; an independent
standby source of power, such as a diesel generator, may also be provided.
   Many utilities, particularly overseas, prefer to pump directly into distribution. Although
there are significant disadvantages as outlined above, the need to limit capital investment
often outweighs the control advantages of elevated storage. It is true that systems for
control of direct pumping into a distribution system are becoming increasingly
sophisticated, but these require an appropriate level of technical maintenance which
may not be available to water undertakings with limited resources or in remote places
where simple fail-safe systems are preferable.


14.10 Distribution system characteristics
The principal performanc e requirements for a distribution system are the following.
(1) Minimum pressures at peak demand times on 24-hour supply systems need to be not
    less than 15-20 m in the main at the highest supply point a system can serve. Higher
    pressures may be necessary in some areas where there are a significant number of
    dwellings exceeding three-storey height; but high rise blocks will normally be required
    to have their own booster.
(2) Static pressures under low night-time demand should be as low as practicable to
    minimise leakage. For flat areas a maximum static pressure in the range 40-50 m is
    desirable. For undulating areas a higher static pressure may be unavoidable. If the
    distribution system contains older mains laid in Class B, C or D pipes, the maximum
    static pressure must not exceed 60, 90 and 120 m, respectively, which are the working
    pressures for such pipes.
(3) In the UK, the ideal fire demand requirements range from 8 1/s from a single hydrant
    in a one- or two-storey housing development to up to 75 1/s from pipework
    infrastructure to an industrial estate (see Section 15.2). Owners of property requiring
    supplies for sprinklers or hydrants on their premises may need to enter special
    arrangements with the water supplier. In the USA higher fire flows are required.
(4) Consistent water quality must be maintained through the system by establishing
    discrete hydraulic and source water quality areas. Wherever possible dead ends, long
    retention times, mixing of different waters within the distribution system, and diurnal
    reversals of flow in mains should be avoided.
(5) Spare flow capacity must exist in the system sufficient to meet foreseeable rises of
     demand over the next few years.
Occasionally static pressures have to be high because of widely fluctuating ground levels
over short distances, making division of the distribution system into different pressure
zones difficult. Pressure reducing valves can be adopted to reduce pressures in low lying
areas, but they must be regularly maintained if they are to operate reliably. To guard
                                                14.10 D&tribution system character&tics          627


against mishaps, the low level system must be strong enough to resist the maximum
possible static pressure if the valve fails or needs to be by-passed for operational reasons.
   Lower supply pressures of about 10 m head are desirable if only standpipes have to be
supplied. This makes it possible to use low pressure, easily operable standpipe taps which
give less maintenance problems and less wastage. However, standpipe-only systems are
rare and it is not practicable to supply water over large areas at very low pressure.
   Network mains usually have diameters in the range 100-250 mm. For 300 mm diameter
pipes and above, the work of making service pipe connections to mains increases
substantially, because it is necessary to excavate below the pipe to accommodate the chain
which holds the tapping machine in place. Also a 300 mm main is of such large capacity
that it will normally be used to convey water in bulk to an area for further distribution.
Ideally service connections should be restricted to the smaller network mains. In areas
where there are large industrial consumers, or where the per capita consumption for
domestic purposes is exceptionally high, some network mains may be 400-450 mm
diameter. Small mains of 80 mm and below should comprise only spur or rider mains
feeding small groups of properties so they do not form part of the network. In practice,
however, the older systems often have a significant proportion of 80 mm mains.
  Principal feeder mains vary in diameter according to the size of area served: some may
supply properties en route. For instance a principal main in a rural area may be as small as
100 or 150 mm diameter and would supply properties en route, but in most urban areas
200 mm would be regarded as the smallest feeder main, and many are larger than this. The
proportions of mains laid in the different sizes in typical water undertakings are given in
Table 14.1. The preponderance of mains of 80-150 mm size indicates that these comprise
the majority of mains from which properties are served and thus form the network mains.
The proportion of mains over 450 mm size usually reflects the distance between sources or
reservoirs and the focal points of the area served.




Table 14.1 Percentage of mains laid in different sizes in five typical urban water undertakings

Diameter                     UK (A)       UK (B)      UK (C)       Overseas (D)      Overseas (E)
mm            inches            %           %            %                 %              %

80            3                29.9         39.3         10.5              18.0            6.0
100-150       4, 6             52.6         43.5         53.0              53.0           72.0
200-225       8, 9              9.2          4.7          9.8              12.0            3.0
250-350       10, 12, 14        5.1          4.9          8.0        -]
375--450      15, 18             1.7         3.8          6.0        I 17.0               11.0
500-600       20, 21, 24         1.5         1.9          6.6
Over 600      Over 24            0.2         1.9          6.1             Nil              8.0
                              100.0        100.0        100.0             100.0          100.0

Note. The 225 mm (9 in) and 375 mm (15 in) diameter pipes are no longer in production, but many
were laid and still exist. The 175 mm (7 in) mains are found in some older distribution systems.
628     Pipel&e and distribution system design and analysis


14.11 Design of networks
There are few occasions when the design of a completely new distribution system is
required, hence the majority of hydraulic studies and designs involve analysing the
performance of an existing system and where necessary improving its performance to meet
demands from new developments and increased consumption by existing consumers. Due
to the complex nature of existing systems and the need to meet more exacting performance
criteria for service levels and water quality, distribution network analysis has become
increasingly complex requiring the use of computers and hydraulic network analysis
techniques as discussed in Section 14.14 below.
   However the design of new local distribution pipework is largely empirical. A main must be
laid in every street along which there are properties requiring a supply. Mains most frequently
used for local distribution are 100 or 150 mm diameters, as Table 14.1 shows. Smaller mains
are still laid, but it is not the best practice to use pipes smaller than 100 mm diameter because
they are unlikely to have adequate capacity to meet the minimum fire demand at hydrants.
   The diameter of local distribution pipes depends primarily upon the population density
of the area to be served and how the pipe is supplied. Although guidelines can be
developed for sizing new pipes when extending an existing system, the designer needs an
understanding of the site specific conditions and performance of the system. At any time,
t, of the day, the demand from an area comprises:
        Average day                    Average day                     Allowance for leakage
      domestic demand      Dtl + non-domestic demands        Dt2 +         at time t

where D tl and Dr2 a r e the diurnal factors applying at time t to the domestic and non-
domestic demands, and the leakage allowance varies with the system pressure at time t as
suggested by the 1994 WRc formula given in Section 1.16. The peak hour demand occurs
at different times for different types of demand in different parts of the system. The
designer therefore needs to develop the demand characteristics from field measurements of
flow and pressure. If not a system demand profile must be built up from its constituent
parts using available records of demand and patterns of usage, making assumptions only
where better information is not available. A similar approach needs to be applied when
deriving seasonal variations.
   Pipe velocities at high demands should be limited to keep friction head losses within
acceptable limits. Minimum velocities should also be achieved wherever possible to ensure
the age of the water in the pipes does not become excessive and that loose deposits in the
mains are not cyclically deposited and lifted into suspension, causing dirty water problems.
The designer can draw up basic tables for sizing pipes manually, based on limiting
velocities according to diameter of pipe, or to maximum headloss per km.
   Where dwelling numbers and occupancy ratios cannot be readily assessed from utility
records and census data, figures for the average number of people per hectare or per
kilometre of mains may be used, but with caution. Table 14.2 gives typical average number of
connections per km of main for large utilities. They include both domestic and trade
connections. The number of people served by each street main will be influenced not only by
the type and arrangement of the dwelling units and their occupancy ratio, but also by the
kind of water supply given. In densely populated low income areas of overseas cities a large
proportion of the population may be served by street standpipes. High-rise buildings result in
high population densities, but each such building is generally fed by a single large connection.
Table 14.3 gives some indication of the densities that can be met in small areas of cities.
                                                                 14.11 Design of networks       629


Table 14.2   Population served per kilometre of mains laid

                                                                                  Average no.
                                           Gross density     Average no. people   connections
Large areas; UK only (50-2500 km 2)        (People/ha)       per km of main       per km of main
Built-up urban area                        40-60             370-450              150-170
Predominantly residential urban area       20-40             290-370              120-150
Well spread urban area with parks, etc.     7-20             200-290               85-120
Mixed urban and rural                       4-7              160-200               70-85
Populated rural areas with villages         1.5-4            110-160               50-70
Predominantly rural areas                   0.5-1.5           65-110               25-50

Note. The number of connections includes usual small trade supplies.




Table 14.3   Population densities in urban areas

                                              Net density            People per      People per
Small areas (5-25 ha)                         (people/ha)            household       km of street
Overseas
Densely populated low income areas               800-1200            Over 6          3000--4000
Planned high occupancy dwellings              1000                   5-6             3000
High density- fiats                              750                 3-5
High density - condominiums                      510                 3-5
Medium density housing                           360                 3-5
Low density housing                               60                 3-5
Dormitory accommodation                          750                 n/a
 UK
Four-storey dwellings                            450                 2.5             2250
Residential areas with gardens                     45                2.75-3           120-140


City centres                           Gross density           People per          People per km
(averages for 1000-1500 ha)            (people/ha)             household           of street
Densest areas                          100-125                 2.5                 700-800
Next densest areas                      70-100                 2.5                 600-700

Notes.
Gross density - on total area inclusive of open spaces, etc.
Net density- on area reserved for housing, inclusive of service roads.
The population per km of street is given because the population per km of mains will depend upon
the size of main and whether dual mains are laid.
The range of 1998 UK figures for household size is given in Section 1.8.
630    Pipeline and distribution system design and analysis

   To meet fire demands the whole head at a hydrant can be utilised. A single fire hydrant
flow of 2 m3/min can be relatively easily met by a 150 mm main fed from both ends; the
flow rate in the main being 0.94 m/s and a rate of loss in the main of about 11.5 m/km. If
only fed from one end, the velocity increases to 1.9 m/s and the head loss becomes 46 m/
km which may be acceptable in urban areas if the lengths of pipe between cross
connections are relatively short. Further away from the hydrant being used, the number of
mains contributing to the flow will increase so that the headloss in them will be very much
less. The same flow in a 100 mm pipe fed from both ends would produce both high
velocity (2.12 m/s) and head loss (98 m/km). Hence although the full system head can be
taken into account under fire demand conditions, sizing distribution mains should take
account of the fire risk along the pipe alignment and hence the minimum fire demand
associated with the risk. Fire flows are discussed further in Section 15.2.
   The layout must form a sensible hierarchy, in which the larger mains feed the smaller
ones, and also the designer may need to take into account a water undertaking's preferred
range of pipe diameters and material, usually adopted to limit the numbers of spares an
undertaking must hold. Care needs to be taken to ensure the chosen network of preferred
pipe diameters does not restrict potential growth or create unacceptable velocities, high
and low.
   Where a network is open and highly interconnected, there will be opportunities to
optimise the layout to maintain acceptable operating conditions under emergency flows
while reducing retention times and minimising pressure variations. However, as discussed
above, increasingly designs need to take into account the desirability of establishing stable
supply areas which optimise operational efficiency, facilitate control of leakage, and aid
maintenance of consistent water quality within the distribution system.
   Computer software need not be used to analysis flows in small and straightforward
street mains layouts. It is, however, an appropriate engineering design tool for more
complex pipe arrangements, the analysis of existing networks, and where the design
process is integrated with a base mapping and computer aided drafting package (CAD) or
a GIS. It is also useful for testing the capacity of a network as a whole to meet a major fire
demand.


14.12 Design of principal feeder mains
The matters to be considered when designing principal feed mains and trunk mains
include:
9     the optimum engineering or most physically practical route;
9     proposed mode of operating the system; available resources versus seasonal and
      diurnal variations;
 9    location and capacity of storage;
 9    provision of system flexibility without creating diurnal reversal of flow in mains;
 9    capital versus operating cost;
 9    confidence in demand projections.
The design process must include decisions as to which source should supply each area,
which route is practical for new mains and how peak day demands are to be met when
some sources have spare capacity and others have not. Oversized mains will be advisable
in some areas to cater for possible additional future demand, and ring mains will be
                                            14.13 Manual calculation of network flows      631


needed to transfer water across the distribution system under different phases of
development. The design should achieve the optimum combination of pipe sizes and
alignments to satisfactorily meet the various demand conditions. The first step will be to
identify route options. The process will involve desk studies of maps, records of physical
obstructions including the locations of other utilities, and site visits to assess construction
constraints and practicability of route.
   Once realistic routes have been identified for the mains, pipe sizing can proceed with
reference to a summation of the flows in mains working back from the extremities of the
system towards the source(s). This process is similar to that used to assess demands in
distribution pipework except that the demands on feeder mains are the summations of the
demands from the pipes they supply.
   Manual calculations using spreadsheets and programmable calculators are useful tools
when analysing options which cover alternative routes of different lengths entailing a
different pattern of interconnections. Quick approximations of the required diameters of
new mains for a given flow, and the flow capacity of existing mains according to their
diameter, can be made if a table of appropriate head losses and consequent flow capacity
for each size of pipe is first drawn up. Flow velocities are so chosen that losses through a
typical distribution system under peak hour demands will be about the maximum
practicable. The table is drawn up to show mains' capacities to meet the maximum day
demand because this is the output which must be matched by sources. The method permits
the planning of routes for new mains with a rough knowledge of the size of pipe required.
Later the pipe sizes chosen can be checked in more detail.
   As in the case of designing networks, hydraulic modelling is used to analyse more
complex networks and resolve operational management issues such as blending different
sources in order to maintain water quality, or optimising use of storage capacity to
maintain diurnal reliability.


14.13 Manual calculation of network flows
Manual calculations are cheap where they take only a day or two to complete, and give the
engineer an invaluable understanding of the way a system must work. They can show
which principal mains are overloaded or have spare capacity; why areas of low pressure
occur; and what new mains must be laid to meet additional demands or improve pressures.
   For manual analysis the network is reduced to a 'skeleton layout' of principal mains,
and the total average daily demand is divided out over areas and allocated to nodes. There
are various ways of analysing the system but the simplest way is to divide the network into
ring mains and 'tree branches'. To analyse flow in ring mains, a trial division of flows at
the input point can, after two or three attempts, be sufficiently adjusted to disclose the
'point of balance' in the ring main where friction losses in either leg are equal. If two ring
mains are conjoined by a common leg (a 'figure of eight' formation), then a further process
of trial and error can bring the flows and pressure losses of the two rings into balance.
Flows taken by 'tree branch mains' can be calculated directly. The analysis can be repeated
using a peaking factor applied to the average daily nodal demands.
   Pressures in the distribution system are easily measured in the field for average and peak
hourly conditions and, from them, pressure contour maps can be drawn for each case.
These contours are reliable indicators of loss because pressure in principal mains cannot
vary abruptly from one location to the next if valves a~re kept open. The pressures can be
632   Pipeline and distribution system design and analysis

used to check, or adjust if necessary, the friction coefficients used in the analysis. These
analyses will reveal where inadequate mains capacity exists, evidenced by high flow
velocities and large friction losses. The effect of additional mains to improve pressures or
cope with unsatisfied or future demands can easily be ascertained. A manual analysis will
be a reliable basis for the planning of distribution improvements and extensions, but a
detailed computer hydraulic analysis can provide extra information about parts of a
system, the behaviour of reservoir rise and fill mains, and the effects of a burst main or
major fire demand. It has to be remembered however that the accuracy of any computer
model is not greater than the accuracy with which nodal demands can be estimated. Also
every distribution system must have spare capacity in it to meet future increases of
demand, and often the magnitude and location of such future demands is not known with
any accuracy. Hence planning the development of a system is more often the choice of a
strategy that best meets a range of future options than using precise calculation to meet
some fixed situation ahead. The small mains of 200, 150 and 100 mm diameter are mostly
ignored in a manual analysis, because they are normally designed according to local
demand conditions.


14.14 Analysing existing systems by computer modelling
Network analysis by computer-based mathematical models can be used to analyse the
hydraulic performance of existing systems and the design of new systems. Models
representing both trunk mains and distribution pipework are used to assess system
performance under a variety of supply and operating conditions.
   With an increasing need to achieve operational efficiency, maintain service levels, and
produce most economical rehabilitation and reinforcement proposals, models need to be
constructed and validated to more exacting criteria. As hardware has developed, so it has
been possible to build larger models in greater detail and also to use them to analyse water
quality parameters. Both trunk main (strategic) and distribution models are built, but
current practice is to construct 'all mains models' that comprises all the pipework between
source and the service connection.
   The physical characteristics of the system are represented in the model by nodes and
pipes (or elements) in a set of linked data files. The nodes, joined together by pipes,
represent pipe junctions and changes in pipe diameter, and include other system attributes
such as flow or pressure control valves. Water demand on a main is allocated to the nodes
either end, taking account of the distribution of the drawoffs along it. The node and pipe
data files contain geographic co-ordinates, ground levels, basic demand information,
internal diameter and friction coefficients, pump curves, service reservoir geometry, and
valve performance characteristics.
   As software has developed, so model construction has become more sophisticated. It is
 now common to abstract the data required for modelling from other databases used for
company records. Recent and ongoing software developments can link the network
 analysis software directly to GIS, customer information systems (CIS), and telemetry data
 for the necessary input. The distribution of demands to nodes can be related to the area
 served from each and the make up of each demand. Where all consumers are metered, the
 demand at a node can be readily assigned as a measured consumption by category of user.
 Typically consumption is based on postal address or code and a geographic reference
 system, or use is made of data from the billing system and GIS. Where customers are
                              14.14 Analysing existing systems by computer modelling 633

unmetered, nodal demands have to be assessed from unit consumption estimates applied
to property count or population figures. In practice demands at a node are made up of a
number of categories of demand including, metered and unmetered domestic demand, and
commercial, institutional and industrial demands. The different diurnal patterns of
demand associated with each type of demand have to be taken into account. For example,
industrial demands may be 24 hour or occurring during daytime working hours only.
Different industries, such as food processing, dairies and laundries, will exhibit different
diurnal demand patterns. The number of demand types taken will depend on the capacity
of the software and the accuracy of the data used to derive the base demands. The
modeller needs to keep in mind the accuracy of the output required from the model and
the quality and availability of the data from which the model will be built.
   The structures of most packages follow similar data formats for the physical system
attributes and base demand information. Variations are usually associated with model size
and how network apparatus (pumps, valves, reservoirs) are represented mathematically.
Each package has its strengths and weaknesses and the choice of software will depend on
the user's personal preference, the application for which it is required, the availability and
quality of source data, the type of output required, and whether the software is one
component of an integrated management information system. However a model
constructed to the format of a particular package need not be a constraint because, in
practice, provided access is possible to the data files, it is relatively quick and easy to
convert a model from one format to another. If the hydraulic model construction
procedures are carefully developed from the outset, future updating, particularly of the
demand data, can become a relatively straightforward and mechanical process.
   Although some software packages impose physical size restrictions, it is the ability of
the engineer to assimilate and interpret complex analytical results which represents the
overriding constraint on the size of model which can be built. Water quality analyses also
impose analysis run-time constraints which need to be considered when deciding how large
a model to construct
   The actual mathematical analysis conducted by the computer comprises the iterative
solution of a collection of algorithms in order to simulate the behaviour of the flow
through the system. The computer solves the equations to specified tolerances by
successive approximations subject to the following rules:
(1) the algebraic sum of the flows entering and leaving a node must be zero;
(2) in any closed loop in the system the algebraic sum of the pressure losses must be
    zero;
(3) the combined inputs to the system must equal the total of the nodal demands.
The operational control and dynamic (extended period) characteristics of the distribution
system are contained in a time or control file which imposes particular supply/demand and
operational conditions on the network. It may cover a single 'snapshot' or a series of
prescribed time periods for each of which the changing activities of the system are listed.
These include factors to represent the diurnal demand patterns, system losses and other
demand related matters such as times at which pumps start and stop or when valves are
opened and closed.
  The model operates by applying operational conditions to the network data. Starting
with initial pre-set reservoir levels, it establishes the status of pumps, pipes and valves and
calculates demands, pressures, and flows in the network over the first time period. The net
634    Pipel&e and distribution system design and analysis

reservoir inflows/outflows and, from the reservoir geometry, the rise or fall in reservoir
levels is also calculated at the end of the time step. These new reservoir levels are then used
as the starting values for the second time period together with the diurnal demands and
activities corresponding to the next analysis step. The analysis repeats this for each
subsequent time step. At the end of each time period a 'snapshot' of flows, pressures,
demands, pump performance and other relevant data is stored; thus by the end of the
analysis the sequence of snapshot results can be displayed both graphically and in tabular
form to illustrate the changing performance of the network and individual elements of the
system over the period of the analysis. For hydraulic design, typical simulation times are
over 24 hours, but for operational management and predictive planning, they may be
extended over 7 days, or be further extended to analyse seasonal variations or long-term
planning changes. Fixed and variable factors can be redefined for each run, to represent
different operating conditions, and permitting an optimum sequence of results to be
selected.
   Complex design and operational efficiency simulations should only be undertaken if the
model can first be validated against the results of field calibration tests in either steady
state (snapshot) or, preferably dynamic (extended period) mode. This requires the
collection and analysis of contemporary flow and pressure measurements from the
distribution system over a period of time, typically 7 days, and comparing these
measurements with the calculated flows and pressures obtained by the model which has
been set up to represent the same supply and demand conditions. The quality of a
calibrated model is dependent on the quality of the data derived from the field test. Field
test activities include:
9     flow and pressure measurements;
9     establishing pump head/discharge and efficiency characteristics;
9     valve status checking;
9     reservoir drop tests;
9     internal diameter and velocity profiles at insertion probe flow measurement points;
9     estimating pipe friction characteristics by some form of internal visual inspection;
9     interviewing metered consumers to establish their diurnal patterns of demand;
9     resolving anomalies.
In order to limit the number of unknowns before the calibration field testing takes place,
thereby avoiding an abortive test, extensive preliminary field investigations are required.
Flows should be recorded at all sources into the system and internal flow meters may be
used to determine area or sub-area demand, including inflows and outflows to storages
and the usage by the larger metered consumers. Pressures are measured simultaneously at
typically between 20 and 35% of the number of demand nodes. The quality of the
calibration improves and the time required to complete the validation process reduces with
the number of available reference points. Where the field recorded pressures and flows do
not agree with those computed by the model within specified tolerances, pipe
characteristics are adjusted using engineering judgement and the analysis is repeated
until the calculated flows match those measured in the field. The model is then considered
to be calibrated.
   Successful construction of a validated model requires a methodical approach to both
model construction and the fieldwork, and should include the development of procedures
to simplify future model updating. The calibration process itself needs to be systematic
                                                     14.15 Water Quality Modelling     635


and all adjustments to pipe characteristics must reflect known information of the
condition and performance of a pipe. Where it is found necessary to adjust pipe
roughnesses beyond reasonable values for the type, age and condition of the pipe, the
anomaly should be recorded, and data searches and field investigations will be needed to
justify the use of the anomalous value. Similarly conclusions that flows within a pipe or
demands are incorrect, require investigation to substantiate the figures. Demand data
should never be arbitrarily reallocated to 'fit the field measurements'. All adjustments
must be justified or identified as an unresolved anomaly to be investigated later or taken
into account when using the model for predictive work. Full documentation of the model,
including the modelling techniques used, the assumptions made and anomalies remaining,
is also required.


14.15 Water Quality Modelling
As water quality issues have become more significant in the UK, software developers have
created water quality analysis modules, either as additional features to their hydraulics
network analysis packages or as an integral part of a new suite of programs. These
package s are now being used to model water quality parameters within a distribution
system.
   The majority of programs used in the water industry now include water quality
modelling to a greater or lesser degree. As with hydraulics packages each has developed a
slightly different approach, with different water quality features and results presented in
different ways. Water quality models can be built to analyse at any point in the system:
9   the age of water and hence the retention time within the network;
9   the amount of water from a specified source, where more than one source is used;
9   concentrations of substances which are independent of time but may be altered by
    mixing;
9   decline or increase of substance concentrations which are time dependent.
The calculated ages and relative proportion of source waters at model nodes, are used to
correlate with the results from water quality sampling programmes, or where consumer
complaints have occurred. Source contribution analyses can be used to track and predict
the effects and extent of pollution incidents. Chlorine residual models can be calibrated
against recorded data and field measurements, using the time of travel and age of water
analysis mode. Chlorine models used in conjunction with chemical and bacteriological
sampling data and statistical predictive modelling techniques, can be used to improve the
efficiency of dosing controls.
   Experience to date shows that water quality modelling must be based on a validated
hydraulic model to ensure the real time of travel of water is represented. Where, due to
software constraints or client requirements the hydraulic model is a simplification of the
network, modelled velocities usually represent an under-estimate of the time of travel or
age of water at any point because the model tends to compute higher flow rates in the
reduced number of pipes. It has therefore been found that water quality modelling
generally requires more detailed (all mains) hydraulic models which replicate more closely
the velocities in mains. With the current trend to build all mains models this problem is
being overcome. Age of water models frequently form part of current model construction
specifications.
636    Pipeline and distribution system design and analysis

   The key to all mathematical modelling is verification. The equipment required to
calibrate hydraulic models has developed over a number of years to meet the increasing
accuracy and reliability requirements associated with the greater sophistication of
hydraulic models. However, the field test equipment for continuous sampling and
analysing of water quality needed to provide the data for calibrating water quality models
is still being developed. At present the equipment is relatively expensive and not available
in the numbers necessary to achieve the coverage necessary. As modelling techniques are
devised and developed, so the monitoring equipment will evolve. There is no question that
water quality modelling represents a potentially powerful tool for the future, but until the
field sampling equipment is available, validation will be constrained by the quality of data
obtainable using existing equipment and techniques.


14.16 Updating of network models
Since the network file is a static database, it should not be necessary to make any
alterations to the data file after the model has been proved except when changes are made
to the network, or base demands change. It is essential that all significant changes should
be recorded in order to maintain the accuracy of the model. Changes are likely to be
associated with:
9     demand changes (new developments, changes in metered consumption rates);
9     extensions of mains and rehabilitation, replacement and renewals;
9     operational changes (alterations of zonal boundaries, opening/closing of valves or
      replacement of pumps).
Domestic demand changes can be assessed by reviewing seasonal variations, reductions in
the level of leakage, increased per capita consumption, or changes in consumption
volumes recorded in metering records. Trade, industrial and institutional consumers will
generally be metered and any changes can be derived from billing records. Changes in
mains layouts or mains condition, e.g. by scraping and lining to improve the internal
roughness, will require amendments to the network file and schematic maps. Where
permanent changes to zonal boundaries are made it will be necessary to revise the base
demands in each of the distribution zones affected.
   The increasing use of GIS, CIS, and associated system performance databases, provides
opportunities for building and updating hydraulic models electronically, thereby
eliminating the costly manual process which has inhibited model revision in the past.
Further developments with genetic algorithms should bring additional model construction
cost savings and improve optimisation facilities.
   Hydraulic analysis software which can be integrated with the different business data-
bases is currently being developed by a number of suppliers and associated organisations.
Although some packages available are designed to deal with particular construction
problems, none have yet resolved the problem of repeatability or only updating where
there have been changes. The debate centres around whether to rebuild completely each
time a new generation of model is required, or whether to update by exceptions; that is
only revise sections of the model where there are known changes to the data. A second
debate centres on the frequency of re-validating the model and whether to undertake a full
or partial field test. Both these issues are influenced by the type of software adopted and
the purpose for which the model is required.
                                                                         References 637

  Using information from mains record, customer billing, telemetry, levels of service, and
water quality data accessed through an integrated management information system,
combined with on line 'real-time' hydraulic analysis will provide future planners and
operations engineers with a powerful suite of engineering analysis tools.


References
  1. Office of Water Services. 1998 July Return Reporting Requirements and Definitions
     Manual, 31 January 1998.
  2. BS 6700:1987 Design, Installation, Testing and Maintenance of Services for Supplying
     Water for Domestic Use.
                        15
              Distribution practice

15.1 Distribution organisation
Distribution organisational systems vary, reflecting division into operational functions or
into separate regions of supply where the area served is large. Figure 15.1 shows the
predominantly functional division adopted by a very large undertaking. Distribution
activities normally controlled by head office departments comprise:
(1)   management of meter reading, customer billing and income collection;
(2)   negotiating agreements for extension of mains and new services;
(3)   response to customer complaints;
(4)   engineering planning and design;
(5)   training;
(6)   all legal, budgetary and financial control measures.
Activities delegated to regional or local divisions of the distribution system usually
comprise:
(1)   maintenance of supplies;
(2)   customer relationship and investigation of customer difficulties;
(3)   repair and maintenance of mains;
(4)   monitoring of levels of service, flows and pressures;
(5)   leak detection and repair, and reduction of waste;
(6)   inspection of plumbing systems and enforcement of water byelaws.
Water undertakings in the more industrialised countries are increasingly making use of
telemetry to set up central or regional Control Centres manned 24 hours a day. Data from
key monitoring points throughout the distribution system, and the output of sources of
supply, is monitored and processed so that deficiencies of supply, burst mains, fire
demands, or consumer complaints, can be handled swiftly by calling out the necessary
staff to deal with them. With an increasing trend towards the adoption of automated or
semi-automated plant, the output of source works or pumping stations may be remotely
controlled from the Centre.
   For undertakings with no central telemetering control, it is usual for local distribution
managers to keep in touch with the source output personnel, so that source outputs are
altered as necessary to meet demand variations. Frequently regular times of reporting are
arranged- at 09.00 h to consider what source output is required according to the previous
day's consumption and the water levels in service reservoirs; and at 16.00 h to agree any
further adjustment of source output in the light of the current day's demand. There will
also be a need for communication when a fire demand arises or a burst main occurs.
                                                                                            Distribution Department
                                                                                            (Distribution Manager)



                                                   I                                 !                                                                i                                        !                               1
                   ,




                                                                                                                                                               ,,
       Electrical and Mechanical
       Department
                                       Hydraulics and Trunk
                                       Mains Department
                                                               }         Operations Department
                                                                         (Manager- Distribution)
                                                                                                                                I Ordering and Stock
                                                                                                                                  Control Department
                                                                                                                                                                                    Metering Department I
                                                                                                                                                                                    (Manager - Meters)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  [   Training Department
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (Manager - Training)
       (Manager - Mechanical)          (Manager- Hydraulics)                                                                      (Manager- Supplies)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               i
                                                                                                                                                                    9       L




                                       !                             I          _                           1                                                                   f              '              I
                                   Records                                                        Agreements                                                                                                                Training
                                   Department J                icantra,
                                                                WasteControlII                    and Mains                                                             Department                 Department     1         School             i
                                                                Department ]                      Extensions                                                                    !                                                      9   .




                                                                                                  Department
                                                                                                                                                                                              ]
                                                                                                                                                I Ordering                           [    MeterStores ]
                                                                                                                                                  Department
                                           l
            I Workshop I                   Trunk Mainlayingl
                                           Department      I                                                                                        !                                          I
                                                  I
                                               Foreman                                                                                          [ c-,-,
                                                                                                                                                  Stores , I                             MeterTesting
                                                                                                                                                                                         and RepairShop
                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                    I
                                               Labourers
                                                                                ,,          - -       , D   .-,   . -   ..-   ....   ,,...,..




                                                    I
                                                  Plant
                                                                    District A     Oistrict[8
                                                                    Superintendent Superintendent
                                                                                    ,,,
            PumpingStation
            Superintendents                                                 I
                                                                         Inq~or          Inspector
                                                                                                  I
                                                                            I
                                                                     Chief Meter
                                                                                                  I
                                                                                         Chief Meter
                                                                     Reader              Reader
                                                                            I
                                                                         Foreman         Foreman
                                                                                                  I
                                                                         Mainlaye~       Mainlayer
                                                                         FoJmen           Foreman
                                                                                                  I
                                                                         Plumber          Plumber



Fig. 15.1   The Distribution Department for a large waterworks undertaking.
640   Dk~tribution practice

   A large distribution network is typically divided into separate areas termed 'zones',
which are further subdivided into 'district meter areas' (districts or DMAs). Zones are
usually based on the supply from one source, or a group of sources giving similar water, in
order to provide a consistent quality of water. DMAs are used for monitoring
consumption and evidence of leakage, and are chosen to achieve stable flows through
their mains under normal conditions, to avoid flow reversals or excessive velocities in
mains which could cause water quality deterioration (see Section 14.3). The measured
flows into zones and districts permit monitoring of consumption in each part of the
system, so that areas showing unusually high consumption can be scheduled for
investigation. These flows, together with pressures taken at critical points in the network,
can be transmitted by telemetry to the Central Control where they can be monitored and
recorded to assess the operational performance of the system.
   The key operative at local level for a distribution system is usually designated the
'District Inspector'; though sometimes the earlier term of 'Turnkey' is used. The inspector
liaises with the public and investigates customer complaints, monitors levels of service,
inspects properties for waste, and keeps the area under surveillance for visible signs of
leakage. The inspector should also take part in waste detection activities. His or her
intimate knowledge of the local mains system, its consumers and operational anomalies is
invaluable in diagnosing the cause of troubles and directing where remedial measures are
necessary. When burst mains occur or a large fire demand for water arises the inspector
initiates the necessary valve operations. The inspector's principal task is to maintain
supplies in his or her area with the minimum of waste.
   Where a network is large and service laying and small mains repairs are undertaken by
direct labour gangs, the distribution inspectors, waste and repair gangs may be backed by
facilities provided in local depots and stores. Where, however, these activities are now
largely contracted out to private contractors, some organisations have used the advantages
of information technology to give their district inspectors a greater degree of autonomy.
They may now operate out of fully equipped vans and, provided with ready access (via
portable computers) to up-to-date mains plans and asset data, they can manage their area
independently, and are able to respond swiftly to any operational requirements. This
procedure has proved an efficient method of working and is a growing practice in UK.

Difference under intermittent supply conditions
In many countries, water undertakers are only able to provide intermittent supplies due to
lack of source capacity and limited financial resources. Water rationing has then to be
practised by operating distribution valves daily to apportion water in rotation to different
areas, or the whole supply to an area has to be turned on and off, twice a day, to provide
water to consumers morning and evening. Under these circumstances many difficulties
arise, and maintaining water quality may be difficult. The operation of valves will need to
minimise the risk of subjecting parts of the network to vacuum pressures which could
cause groundwater infiltration and contamination of the supply. However, since valves
have to be operated manually, it is usually only the branch mains off principal feed mains
that are operated to shut-off or re-open supplies. Most consumers will use times of supply
to fill storage receptacles for use during periods of non-supply and many may not turn off
their taps so that such receptacles often overflow and waste water. If the quality of water is
suspect, it is quite common for consumers in such intermittent supply areas to boil water
for drinking- and they may even be advised to do so by the supply undertaker. Drinking
                                                        15.2 Fire-fighting requirements 641

water may also be purchased from vendors, though unless the water undertaker controls
such vendors, the quality of water they supply can be very variable.

Distribution network extensions
The design and supervision of construction of network extensions and reinforcements, or
the rehabilitation of mains (see Sections 15.8-15.10) is normally managed by the central
engineering department of a water undertaking. In countries, however, where local water
undertakings have limited technical resources, a separate regional organisation may be
responsible for the design and construction of network extensions for the water
undertakings in its region. Where water companies come under regulatory control, as in
England and Wales, a company's in-house design team may be required to be competitive
against outside designers, and its direct labour section competitive against construction
contractors.
   Some water undertakings still retain direct labour gangs to carry out routine mains
repairs, distribution mains extensions, and the laying of service pipes to consumers.
Alternatively 'term' contractors may be employed to do this type of work for a fixed
period, typically for 1-3 years duration. As discussed in Section 2.10 there is increasing use
being made of private contractors to provide management and maintenance functions of
this type which, previously, were traditionally resourced in-house. The extent to which
these 'facilities management contractors' will be employed depends on the efficiency and
savings in costs such outside contractors are able to provide, as compared with those
which can be achieved using in-house resources.


15.2 Fire-fighting requirements
Under current UK legislation ~ a water undertaker must install fire hydrants on mains
where required by the fire authority, who must pay for the hydrant's installation and
maintenance. The only exception is that the undertaker is not required to install a fire
hydrant on a trunk main. There are no requirements on the water undertaker to provide
any given pressure or flow at a hydrant, except that when the fire authority is dealing with
a fire it can call upon the water undertaker to provide a greater supply or pressure by
shutting off water from mains or pipes in any area. The water undertaker has, however, a
duty to maintain a constant supply of water in its mains at a pressure sufficient to reach
the topmost storey of every building in its a r e a - but not to a greater height 'than that to
which it will flow by gravitation through its water mains from the service reservoir or tank
from which that supply is taken'.
   Water UK and the Local Government Association have issued a 'National Guidance
document on the provision of water for fire fighting '2 which recommends the flow
provisions set out in Table 15.1.
   From Table 15.1 it will be seen that the minimum requirement is 0.5 m3/min for two-
storied housing, with up to 2.1 m3/min for larger dwellings. This agrees with the specified
minimum capacity of fire hydrants of 2 m3/min at a pressure of 1.7 bar at the inlet as
BS750. 3 When larger fires occur, suction hose lines will be put out to additional hydrants
further afield, thus spreading the water demand over more mains. In the USA the
National Board of Fire Underwriters stipulates minimum fire flow capacity of mains
according to size of area and nature of property. These requirements often exceed the peak
domestic rate of demand and therefore dominate the design of distribution mains. Some
642    Distribution practice

Table 15.1 Guidelines on flow requirements for fire fighting issued by the Local Government
Association and Water UK (a)

Category        Description                            'Ideal' requirements
Housing         Detached or semi-detached houses of    8 1/s through a single hydrant
                not more than two floors
                Multi-occupied housing with units of   20-35 1/s through a single hydrant
                more than two floors
Transport       Lorry/coach parks- multi-storey car    System capable of delivering 25 1/s
                parks- service stations                minimum from any single hydrant on
                                                       site or within 90 m.
Industry        Recommended for industrial estates:    Site mains normally at least 150 mm
                                                       diameter.
                - f o r u p t o 1 ha                   Supply- 20 1/s
                -   1-2 ha                             -   35   1/s

                - 2-3 ha                               -   50   1/s

                -over 3 ha                             - 75 1/s
Commercial       Shopping, offices, recreation, and    System capable of delivering 20-75 1/s
                 tourism development
Institutional   Village halls                          15 l/s through any single hydrant on site
                                                       or within 100 m
                Primary schools and single storey      20 l/s through any single hydrant on site
                health centres                         or within 70 m
                Secondary schools, colleges, large     35 1/s through any single hydrant on site
                health and community                   or within 70 m

(a)Water UK is the trade association for water companies in England and Wales.



engineers question whether such high rates are necessary and, although not yet formalised,
discussions on guidelines are taking place in the industry in the USA with the objective of
limiting supply pressures; thereby also reducing unaccounted for water.
   Fire appliances in common use have built-in pumps of capacities 2.3 and 4.5 m3/min.
Nozzle sizes are commonly 13 and 19 mm, discharging flows of 0.16 and 0.45 m3/min,
respectively. Larger nozzles of 25 mm diameter with capacities up to 1.1 m3/min represent
the largest practicable size for hand-held branches.
   Table 15.2 summarises hydrant spacing and flow fire requirements within Europe and
the USA.



15.3       Service pipes
Service pipe connections from a main to a property are usually laid as shown in Fig. 15.2.
In the U K the length of service pipe from the main to the company stop tap (or
consumer's meter if fitted) is termed 'the communication pipe'; the balance of service pipe
to the consumer's internal stop tap being termed 'the supply pipe'. The communication
pipe is maintained by the company and the supply pipe by the customer.
                                                                                           15.3 Service pipes      643


Table 15.2 Fire hydrant and fire flow requirements

                                England and Wales                    USA                             Continent
 Hydrant characteristics        2 m3/min at 1.7 bar                  2 m3/min                        1.0-1.5 m3/min
                                                                                                     minimum
 Initial flow in close          1.4 m3/min upwards                   Not stated                      Generally
 proximity to fire                                                                                   1.0 m3/min
 Subsequent rates of            9 m3/min or more,                    4 m3/min for                    3.6-6.0 m3/min
 flow (as required) for         up to 25 m3/min for                  1000 population,                in high risk
 a single fire                  major fires                          rising to 45 m3/min             areas, or more
                                                                     for 200 000 population*
 Minimum residual               Preferably 0.7 bar but               Not stated                      Not stated
 pressure in mains              not less than zero
 Possible quantity of           Maximum flow times                   Maximum flow for                Maximum not
 water used in a fire           'several hours' say                  4-10 hours                      stated; average
                                6 hours                                                              incidents last
                                                                                                     less than
                                                                                                     2 hours (France)
 Spacing of hydrants            Generally 100-150 m                  100-150 m                       80-100 m in
                                but 30 m in high                                                     urban areas;
                                risk areas                                                           120-140 m in
                                                                                                     residential
                                                                                                     areas; wider in
                                                                                                     rural areas

Notes.
Information for USA and continental requirements as reported by J Bernis in Water Requirements
for Firefighting, Special Subject 7, Proc. IWSA Congress, 1976, and for UK requirements from
BS 750.
*These flows are National Board of Fire Underwriters requirements; actual fire requirements
according to records are 6.3-12.5 m3/min in built-up areas and up to 25 m3/min in high risk areas.




                                                                      I;~
                                                                                b~
                                                                                Property




                                                    Pavement
                                                                                             L


           Ferrule
                     i              ~
                                    :
                                            .
                                            ~G~
                                                -     ~    ~

                                                                                           Stoptap and
                                                                                           meter inside
                     " ~         Jr i   ~       Pipe snaked in the    .                    or outside
                     . . . . --~____3           horizontal plane                           property
                                                through 180~

Fig. 15.2 Typical service pipe construction.
644   Distribution practice

   The ferrule is normally inserted into the main by means of an 'under-pressure' tapping
machine as shown in Fig. 15.3. The machine bores a hole into the main and taps a screw-
thread in the hole. By rotating the head of the machine, the ferrule is brought into position
over the hole and screwed into place. The ferrule has a plug in it which can be screwed
down, so cutting off the supply.
   Service pipe connections for houses are usually to a standard size according to the
practice of the water undertaker, 13 mm being the typical size for a one-family house or
flat which is within 30 m of the distribution main. The pressure in the main would depend
on the system supply characteristics. In the UK where utilities are required to maintain
minimum levels of service, the lowest mains pressure equivalent to the minimum supply
standard is 12-15 m. This 'surrogate' pressure is equivalent to maintaining 10 m available
head at the consumer's stop tap when there is a flow of 9 1/min from the first tap within the
consumer's property.


                                                                       9 screw
                                                                      cing


                                                                      ads for ratchet
                                                                       for boring

                                                                      ill spindle
                                                                      rrule spindle
                                                                      findle head rotates
                                                                      bring ferrule spindle
                                                                      ~neath forcing screw
                                                                      ,rrule
                                          Drill
                                                                      ;=~


                                                                  The drill bit bores and
                                                                  taps a hole in the pipe
                                                                  wall. It is withdrawn,
                                                                  the spindle head
                                                                  rotated, and then the
                                                                  ferrule screwed in.




                                                    qaterway to
                                                    evice pipe
                                                    'lug screwed up to
                                                    ,pen waterway
                                                    hrough ferrule

                                                    ;crewed into main




Fig. 15.3 Under-pressure tapping in a service main showing the type of ferrule inserted.
                                                                     15.3 Service pipes   645

  Higher operating pressures are maintained in the USA, where there are buildings greater
than three storeys and where a water utility is contracted to provide higher mains pressures
for contractual or fire-fighting reasons.

Service pipe materials
Materials used for service pipes comprise: (1) lead and lead alloys, (2) copper, (3) steel,
(4) uPVC, (5) polyethylene.

(1) Lead pipes
Lead and lead alloy pipes are now no longer installed, but many older service pipes in the
UK are of lead and still continue in service. As an EC Directive requires the maximum
value for lead in drinking water to be reduced to 10 #g/1 by year 2013 (see Section 6.27)
UK water utilities have started to replace lead communication pipes whenever they have
to undertake other rehabilitation and service improvement work. However they have
recognised that where treatment solutions alone will not achieve the EC standard, they will
need to implement significant lead service pipe replacement programmes over the next 10
years if they are to meet the new standard. If a consumer wishes to replace his lead supply
pipe with another type of pipe, the water undertaker must likewise replace any lead piping
used in the communication pipe.
   In the USA the Environmental Protection Agency has set a level of 0.015 mg/1 (15 #g/l)
for lead. If this is exceeded the water has to be treated to reduce its plumbosolvency and,
where this treatment is not effective, lead pipe replacement must be undertaken.

(2) Copper pipes
Copper pipes are widely used for plumbing and sometimes also for service pipes where
ground conditions have been corrosive to iron. They are strong, durable, resistant to
corrosion, easily jointed, and capable of withstanding high internal pressures, but are
expensive. Pipes and fittings are jointed either by compression or solder/capillary joints.
However as a consequence of the changes to the standards for acceptable concentrations
of lead in drinking water in Europe and the USA', there is increasing discussion about the
contribution of soldered joints to the lead concentrations in water, particularly in the first
draw after water has been standing in the service pipe overnight.

(3) Steel pipes
Although no longer used for service connections in the UK, steel pipes have been widely
used in the UK in the past and are still used in many countries because they are one of the
cheapest forms of service pipe and can sustain high pressures. They may be supplied
'black' (i.e. untreated) or galvanised and with a range of internal and external protection
systems. However, they are susceptible to structural failure under heavy traffic and, when
laid unprotected in aggressive ground conditions, their life expectancy can be as little as 2-
5 years. Poor installation workmanship, particularly associated with the rigid screw-thread
joints, can result high leakage from an early stage in the life of the pipe. Many older
properties have steel internal plumbing pipes. If steel pipes must be used for underground
service connections, heavy grade steel tubes to BS 13874 should be used, galvanised and if
necessary wrapped with protective adhesive tape if laid in corrosive ground. Permissible
646   Distribution practice

Table 15.3 Steel pipes- heavy grade steel tube to BS 1387:1985 (Table 5)

Nominal diameter              Outside diameter               Min. wall thickness             Mean bore
(mm)                          (mm)                           (mm)                            (mm)
15                            21.1-21.7                      3.2                             14.9
20                            26.6-27.2                      3.2                             20.4
25                            33.4--34.2                     4.0                             25.7
32                            42.1-42.9                      4.0                             24.4
40                            48.0-48.8                      4.0                             40.3
50                            59.8-60.8                      4.5                             51.3


working pressures are ample for the highest waterworks distribution pressures likely to be
met in practice. Dimensions of steel service pipes are given in Table 15.3.


(4) uPVC pipes
uPVC or PVC-u, unplasticised polyvinyl chloride piping is described in Section 13.15. It is
used for service piping in temperate climates and is increasingly being installed for cold
water domestic plumbing pipework. It cannot be used for hot water plumbing and is not
wholly suitable for hot climates because the maximum working pressure reduces by about
2% per I~ above 20~ However it does represent a low-cost pipe where locally made.
The pipes should be stored under cover to protect them from the ultraviolet rays of
sunlight. The pipes are corrosion-resistant, light to handle, and easy to joint using either
solvent cement or compression joints. Solvent cement joints are not now favoured; if a
solvent joint is broken it cannot be remade, uPVC pipes suffer from the same damage from
traffic as steel service pipes but, being less strong than steel, are more susceptible to
damage. Dimensions of uPVC service pipes tO BS 35055 are given in Table 15.4.


Table 15.4 uPVC and polyethylene pipes for cold potable water up to 20~

           uPVC pipes to                              Polyethylene pipes to BS 6572:1985
           BS 3505:1986 (Table 1)                     (Blue) and BS 6730:1986 (Black) (Tables 1)
            Mean OD        Wall thickness             Mean OD                      Wall thickness
 Nominal
 bore       Min.   Max.       Class D*     Class E*   Min.         Max.            Min.        Max.
 (mm)       (mm)   (mm)       (mm)         (mm)       (mm)         (mm)            (mm)        (mm)
 15         21.2   21.5       -            2.1        20.0          20.3           2.3         2.6
 20         26.6   26.9       -            2.5        25.0          25.3           2.3         2.6
 25         33.4   33.7       -            2.7        32.0          32.3           3.0         3.4
 32         42.1   42.4       2.7          3.2        -
 40         48.1   48.4       3.0          3.7        50.0          50.4           4.6         5.2
 50         60.2   60.5       3.7          4.5        63.0          63.4           5.8         6.5
 75         88.7   89.1       5.3          6.5

*For working pressures Class D 120 m, Class E 150 m.
                                                                    15.4 Supply meters    647


(5) Polyethylene pipes
Medium density polyethylene piping (MDPE) (see Section 13.14) is now the principal
material used in the UK for service pipes and is being installed increasingly
internationally, where locally manufactured or where material costs are comparable
with other service pipe materials. Piping can be supplied ~s straight pipes, sawn to length if
necessary, or in coils up to 150 m long suitable for jointing electrothermally or with
mechanical couplings. BS 65726 and BS 67307 specify requirements for the five most
commonly used sizes for cold potable water services at pressures of up to 120 m and
temperatures of up to 20~ - the former standard is for use of blue pigmented pipes in
below ground systems or where the pipes are protected from sunlight by enclosure in ducts
or buildings, and the latter standard is for black pigmented pipes laid above ground.
Dimensions of polyethylene service pipes are given in Table 15.4.



15.4    Supply meters
Supply meters in common use on consumers' service pipes are of two types: semi-positive
and inferential. These terms describe the manner in which they measure flow. The semi-
positive meter, typically sized in the range 15-40 mm, is almost universally used in the UK
for metering domestic and small trade supplies. Several different designs are available, the
most usual type in UK being the rotary piston (or rotary cylinder). This has an
eccentrically pivoted, light weight, freely moving cylinder inside the cylindrical body of the
meter, which is pushed around by the water, opening and closing inlet and outlet ports as
it turns (see Plate 31). This movement operates a counter mechanism which summates the
total flow.
   Another type of semi-positive meter uses a nutating disc which wobbles around in a
circle as water is drawn through the meter and endeavours to pass above or below the disc.
This meter will not measure low flows to the same degree of accuracy as the rotary piston
meter, but is widely used in the USA where domestic flows are generally higher than in
UK. All semi-positive meters should incorporate a strainer upstream as the meter is only
suitable for measuring water free from grit or other suspended matter.
   The inferential meter has a bladed turbine inside which is turned by the flow of water,
i.e. it 'infers' the quantity of water passing by counting the revolutions of the turbine (see
Plate 31). Any particular design must therefore be calibrated at the maker's works. It is
primarily used on industrial supplies, being suitable for measuring large flows. It can
summate the total flow either through counter-gearing, or each revolution of the propeller
may initiate an electrical pulse so that an electrical logger can summate the total flow, and
also record the flow rates over short time intervals. This data can be locally recorded or
transmitted elsewhere by telemetering. For the measurement of widely fluctuating flows,
beyond the range of any single meter, past practice has been to use two meters of different
sizes connected in parallel, an automatic device ensuring the smaller flows pass through
the smaller meter, and vice versa. However such combination meters were expensive to
install, and have now been superseded by the electromagnetic meter (see Sections 10.17
and 15.15) which gives a good accuracy over a wide range of flows and is cheaper and
easier to install.
   The required accuracy of semi-positive and inferential meters is given in Table 1.8 of
Section 1.13.
648   Distribution practice


15.5 Domestic flow requirements and design of service pipes
Flow requirements
The maximum demand rate from a house will depend upon the amount of storage, if any,
provided on the premises. In most modern UK plumbing systems the only storage
provided is that on the hot water system and in WC flushing cisterns. In such cases all cold
water supplies to taps, showers, WC ball valves, and the cold water feed tank t o t h e hot
water system will be fed directly from the mains. In other cases, generally older properties,
only the cold water taps in the kitchen and to a bathroom washbasin will be direct off the
mains; the WC cisterns and showers being fed via the cold water Storage tank. The
maximum rate of flow required to a property therefore depends upon the type of plumbing
arrangement adopted.
   BS 67008 recommends that systems are designed to provide a total demand not
exceeding 0.3 1/s (18 1/min). Simultaneous discharges are likely to cause reduced flows and
hence adverse or malfunctioning of appliances. If the pressure in the mains is high this
effect may be less noticeable. However it is when pressures are below 30 m that an
observable effect will be caused. A householder does not normally expect to get the
maximum flow at all his water consuming facilities simultaneously: he knows that fully
opening of the kitchen tap will tend to reduce the cold flow to washbasin and bath taps on
the floor above. Conversely, the recent trend to install pump assisted (power) showers has
significantly increased the potential peak demand rate from individual dwellings. However
in many cases the capacity of the existing service pipework will restrict the maximum flow
rate to the unit. Table 15.5 gives the British Standard recommended design and minimum
flow rates from different appliances.
   For 'high-rise' flats the cold water supply from the mains will be boosted by a small
pump to a roof tank which then feeds all the supplies to the flats below. The peak demand
from the group of flats will therefore depend upon the amount of storage provided and the
pump characteristics and controls.

Service pipe design
For the design of a service pipe the peak demand rate must be estimated and the minimum
mains pressure must be known. The flow and headloss through the piping can be
calculated using one of the formulae described in Sections 10.4 and 10.5. Section 10.4
suggests some friction coefficients that can be used in the Colebrook-White formula for
new "small diameter service pipes. For service pipes that have been in use for some (or
many) years, friction coefficients are too variable to be able to quote any value that does
not run the risk of being misleading. One can only recommend that a 'realistic' friction
value be taken, bearing in mind the k values in the Colebrook-White formula are meant to
represent 'equivalent sand grain size' of the pipe's internal roughness, and that allowance
must also be made for the relativelyhigh number of joints and fittings occurring on service
pipes and internal plumbing.
   Connections to the distribution main are usually made under pressure, the size of the
tapping being 6 mm less in diameter than the service pipe diameter, except in the case of a
 13 mm service pipe diameter (the minimum size) which has a tapping of the same diameter
as itself. There are usually two stopcocks on the service pipeline: one at the boundary to
the consumer's property, which may be operated only by the water undertaker, and one
just inside the consumer's property for his own operation.
                            15.5 Domestic flow requirements and design of service pipes 649

   Table 15.5 gives headlosses expected through typical fittings. Pressure losses in the
tapping to the main, in stopcocks, and at ball valves and taps may represent the major
pressure losses on the delivery line. Losses at fittings which have been in use for a number
of years may be very high. It must be appreciated that no formula gives consistently
identical results to those obtained even in laboratory tests and, in practical terms,
discrepancies will be not less than + 10%. Hence for design purposes actual flows should
be taken as something less than the calculated value and headlosses as something more.
   The headloss through supply meters of sizes 15-150 m m is required by BS 5728 not to
exceed 2.5 m at the nominal flow rate of the meter. However it is best to consult
manufacturers' literature for actual headlosses.
   All supply meters need to be regularly tested for accuracy every few years. A typical
small meter-testing bench is shown in Fig. 15.4. Large industrial supply meters may be
tested in situ using a turbine or electromagnetic flow probe as described in Section 15.15.


Table 15.5 BS 6700 Design flow rates and headlosses through fittings

                                           Rate of flow (l/m)      Headloss (m) at flow rates
                                           Design    Minimum       7.5 l/min      15 1/min      25 1/min
Kitchen tap 1.2 inch (13 mm)               12         6            0.7            1.7           4.9
Kitchen tap 3/4 inch (19 mm)               18        12            0.3           0.7            2.4
Washing machine                            12         9
Dish washing machine                        9         6
Handbasin (pillar taps)                     9         6
Handbasin (mixer/spray taps)                3         1.8
Bath 3/4 inch (19 mm)                      16        12
Shower (typical)                           12         6
WC cistern to fill in 2 minutes             7.8       6
Ferrule 13 mm                                                       0.3          0.7            2.4
Ferrule 19 mm                                                       0.15         0.4            1.1
Float valve to t a n k - 6 mm orifice                               1.7          4.7            -

Float valve to t a n k - 9 mm orifice                               0.7           1.8           4.0

Other data:

          Service pipe fittings headloss                                 Values of K in V2/2g
          Joints in 13 mm pipes                                          1.2
          Joints in 19 mm pipes                                          0.8
          Elbows                                                         1.0
          Short radius bends                                             0.8
          Equal tees- flow to branch                                     1.3
          Screwdown stopcock- fully open                                 8.2
          Gate type stopcock                                             0.2

BS flows in 1/s have been converted to 1/min. Loss for service pipe fittings are for average condition.
650    Distribution practice

                                                                                                       Constant-head tank

                                                                         Low-flow inlet~                                    controlL~176
                                                                                                             9               Low-flow
                                                                                                                             control
                                                                         Full-flow i n l e t ~                               nozzle
                                                                                                                              Calibrated
             Pressure                                               Alternative position                                      tank
              gauge                    Small meters                 for pressuregauge                                  -'--'indicator
                                                                                                                              Flow
          ShvUt-Off\                    undertest                            \                                         -----Regulating
                                                                                                                             valve
                                                                                                                       ~-Scale

             Water i ~---J'                                 .....        I ""--" I _.             \\                    ~Gauge
             supply ,l___.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               ,.~ ~ ]                 \\                    //glass
                                                                          ?       -['[             ~                    /~..Drain
          Test                                                                                                          /valve
         bench-            ,d ~:r _                            .,
                  ,~   9     ~           _..                 J"-~    [         " ! L-------"',~
                   /                       _,
            Water                                            Large meter
            supply                                            undertest

Fig. 15.4 Meter testing bench.


15.6 Waterworks byelaws
Nearly all water undertakers have regulations or byelaws setting out a variety of
requirements with respect to consumers' use of water and the materials and design of-
plumbing systems. In England and Wales all the water companies' individual byelaws were
repealed and replaced by the Water Supply (Water Fittings) Regulations 1999. These new
Regulations, (issued by the Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the
Regions), follow requirements laid down by the EC and, although not as prescriptive in
detail as some of the previous UK byelaws, they maintain many of the previous byelaw
provisions, such as the requirement t h a t - 'No water fitting shall be installed, connected,
arranged or used in such a manner which causes or is likely to cause waste, misuse, undue
consumption or contamination of water supplied by a water undertaker'. Among the new
provisions of the 1999 Regulations are the following.
  Section 5 of the Regulations requires notification to the water undertaker of any
proposal to install:
9     a bath of capacity over 230 litres;
9     a single shower unit;
9     a pump or booster drawing more than 12 1/min;
9     a reverse osmosis plant;
9     a garden watering system 'unless designed to be operated by hand';
9     'construction of a pond or swimming pool of capacity greater than 10 000 litres ...
      designed to be replenished by automatic means and is to be filled with water supplied
      by the undertaker'.
Schedule 2 to the Regulations gives details of requirements for plumbing fittings for cold
a n d h o t water supply systems. Among the principal new provisions is that WC flushing
                                                  15.7 Checking network performance        651


cisterns installed after 1 January 2001 must not give a single flush exceeding 6 litres. Until
then cisterns of 7.5 litres (the current requirement) can be installed; and there is no time
limit to the replacement of cisterns installed before 1 July 1999 by ones of similar type and
capacity. Both flushing cisterns and pressure flushing cisterns are permitted; but pressure
flushing valves may only be installed in a building which is not a house. As siphonic
flushing cisterns are no longer mandatory, flushing cisterns equipped with flap valves are
permitted (see Section 1.6).
   Another new provision is that domestic water-using machines are required to be
economical in the use of water, and will be regarded as complying with this requirement if
they do not use more than the following:

horizontal axis washing machines         27 litre per kg of washload;
washer-driers                            48 litre per kg of washload; both for a standard 60~
                                         cotton cycle; and
dishwashers                              4.5 litres per place setting.

  An overall requirement is that fittings and their installation must conform t o - 'an
appropriate British Standard or some other national specification of an EEA [European
Economic Area] State which provides an equivalent level of protection and performance'.


Distribution system maintenance
15.7 Checking network performance
To assess the performance of the distribution system and plan repair and rehabilitation
measures, water undertakers now maintain asset records in linked or integrated databases
which comprise:
(1) mains record drawings, and files recording pipe material, age, internal and external
    condition and rehabilitation history;
(2) valve status records;
(3) telemetry data logging flows, pressures and water quality parameters at critical
    monitoring points in the distribution system;
(4) estimates of water losses derived from zonal or district meter recordings;
(5) burst and leakage recurrence rates, including repairs, ground conditions, and cause of
    failure;
(6) consumer complaints concerning poor pressure, reduction or loss of supply, and dirty
    water;
(7) results of water quality tests on random samples of water from the distribution
    system.
System performance analysis is necessary for long-term planning of the expenditure
required to maintain the overall condition of assets. This is usually associated with and
required by industry regulation of privatised water companies. Day-to-day system
performance assessments usually arise as a consequence of consumer complaints, which
are investigated in the first instance by a distribution inspector. Where a complaint
warrants further action, pressure and flow data would be retrieved from the nearest critical
monitoring point and district meter, and would also be measured at the consumer's tap
from which a sample of water might be taken for testing. Further investigations may then
652    Distribution practice

include analysing the system's performance with a hydraulic model. The objective is to
determine whether the problem is an operational one, for which immediate remedial
measures can be initiated, or whether due to a gradual deterioration of the main, in which
case longer term asset renewal may be needed. Dirty water complaints are often related to
the removal of corrosion deposits from old cast iron mains caused by some change in flow
conditions and are normally rectified by mains cleaning or, if persistent, by mains renewal
or relining. Some complaints may concern the presence of animals or insects due to larvae
having entered the system at source works.


15.8      Mains rehabilitation and cleaning
Rehabilitation techniques can be divided into short- and long-term measures. Immediate
actions include, re-zoning supply areas to improve pressures and prevent interruption to
supply, repairing bursts, and mains flushing to resolve dirty water problems. Valve
maintenance should also be included, since for relatively small cost, air and gate valves
can be repaired and leaking glands re-packed. Longer term techniques include mains
rehabilitation or replacement. Rehabilitation techniques can comprise non-aggressive and
aggressive cleaning methods or use of non-structural and structural linings; whilst pipe
replacement 9'1~ may utilise trenchless technology. 11

Mains cleaning methods
Mains cleaning techniques include flushing, air scouring, swabbing, jetting and scraping,
of which the first three are non-aggressive. Flushing, air scouring and jetting are only
effective for pipes up to 300 mm diameters.
   Flushing is a well-established technique for small diameter mains where there is adequate
mains water pressure. The system hydraulics has to be managed to ensure the velocity at
the pipe invert is sufficient to pick up material and hold it in suspension. Whether this can
be achieved depends on the specific gravity of the material, water velocity and pipe
diameter. In practice pipes up to about 100 mm diameter can be flushed through one or
two hydrants supplied from both ends provided there is adequate pressure in the main.
For larger diameter pipes, flushing generally needs to be through three or more adjacent
hydrants, supplied from one direction only at a pressure of at least 4 bar. Achievement of
this may be difficult due to the system hydraulic conditions. It is unlikely to be effective on
mains over 300 mm diameter. When planning a flushing programme the following issues
need to be taken into account:
9     the real source of the problem;
9     the characteristics of the material to be removed;
9     the maximum achievable pipe velocity under realistic hydraulic conditions;
9     the discharge capacity and locations of the hydrants or washouts in relation to the size
      of pipe to be flushed;
 9    acceptable methods of disposing of the flushing water.
Any flushing programme must be done systematically, taking into account likely
secondary water quality problems created by isolating lengths of pipe. Also it must be
expected that flushing is ineffective in a heavily turberculated main. Use of Flowjet
equipment currently under development may be of assistance. The device relies on mains
pressure and discharge from a hydrant to generate high velocities around the
                                                               15.9 Pipe lining methods    653


circumference of a telescopic device, so that these high velocities are directed at the pipe
wall. The device is held against the water pressure to control movement towards the point
of application required.
   Air scouring can be used to generate higher velocities during the flushing process
without using as much water. The injection of filtered compressed air will force slugs of
water along the pipe which will cause more disturbance of loose deposits on the pipe walls
as the slugs form and collapse. The procedure is suitable for pipes up to 200 mm diameter
and for lengths of up to 1000 m; its effectiveness relies on the skill of the operator in
forming suitable air/water mixtures.
   Foam swabs can be used for removing soft or loose material, such as organic debris, iron
and manganese deposits, sand, and stones. The process usually involves using a series of
increasingly hard plastic swabs. The swab should have a diameter 25-75 mm larger than
the bore of the pipe and a length of 1.5-2.0 times the bore. The softer swabs can pass
through butterfly valves. They can be inserted into the main via a hydrant branch, but for
harder or larger swabs the main must be opened. The optimum velocity of the swab is
generally about 1 m/s. Its speed can be controlled by regulating the outflow at the
discharge end, the speed of the swab being usually one-half to three-quarters of the water
velocity because of flow past the swab. Swabbing can greatly improve the flow
characteristics of a slimed main and is frequently used to clean out a newly laid main
before being put into service.
   Scraping and relining is applicable to old tuberculated cast iron mains which are
structurally sound. Pipe scraping methods include drag scraping, power boring and
pressure scraping. Pigs or aggressive swabs comprise plastic swabs incorporating grades of
wire brush or studs. For harder encrusted materials, several passes may be necessary and it
is essential to have a good flow of water past the device toprevent debris accumulating in
front of it. An electrical transmitter incorporated in the swab or pig will assist in tracking
its progress along the pipe. Scraping with pigs is effective in removing hard deposits, but
can also damage and remove linings. The latter may increase PAH levels in the water by
exposing old coal tar linings (see Section 6.36). Aggressive cleaning is therefore usually
followed by applying a secondary lining to the pipe.
   Long lengths of main can be aggressively cleaned in 'one go' if the run is fairly straight
and no obstacles to the passage of the device exist. However, because of the past practice
of using tapers either side of reduced diameter valves, the length is frequently limited to the
distance between valve positions. Service connections off the main must be isolated and,
after cleaning and relining, must be blown back with fresh water. The cleaning and relining
processes is also likely to dislodge, damage or block ferrule connections, so excavation to
these and their repair may also be required, increasing the cost of rehabilitating the main.



15.9     Pipe lining methods
Cement mortar and epoxy resin linings applied to the cleaned internal surfaces of cast iron
mains can improve the hydraulic capacity of a pipe and reduce discolouration caused by
corrosion. In situ linings can be applied to pipes from 75 mm diameter upwards. Cement
mortar linings are typically 4-6 mm thick. They tend to increase the pH of the water. For
pipes up to 150 mm diameter, the reduction in pipe bore and relative roughness of the
mortar surface, may not provide adequate hydraulic capacity.
654   Distribution practice

   Epoxy resins are used for relining mains up to 450 mm in diameter, although it is
technically feasible to line 600 mm diameter mains (see Plate 32). The finished lining is 1-
2 mm thick, has a projected life of up to 75 years, and is very smooth providing a good
hydraulic performance with no water quality problems. The lining can be applied to most
pipe materials, not only iron and steel mains; but care has to be taken to ensure the epoxy
lining makes proper adherence to the wall of the pipe.
   Structural lining methods are adopted where the structural integrity of the main has
deteriorated. These lining methods involve inserting a soft insertion lining into the main by
methods denoted a s - 'sliplining', 'rolldown', or 'swagdown'. Rolldown involves inserting
a polyethylene pipe, which has previously been reduced in diameter by up to 10% by
squeezing in a 'rolldown' machine. When in position the pipe's 'elastic memory' is
activated by internal pressure and it reverts to its former larger diameter to make a close-
fit with the existing pipe wall. The process is suitable for re-lining pipes of 75-600 mm
diameter. All these techniques reduce the internal bore of the host pipe, but can
significantly improve its hydraulic performance because of the smoothness of the lining.
They are quicker to install and less disruptive than relaying the pipe in open cut, but
require each ferrule connection to be redrilled through the lining.



15.10 Pipe replacement
The traditional replacement method is to lay a new main adjacent to the main to be
replaced, later transferring the service connections to the new main as a separate operation
to minimise interruption of supply to consumers. Apart from traditional methods of
trenching, newer techniques include narrow bucket conventional excavation, rockwheels,
chain trenching machines and mole ploughing. Narrow trenching for laying pipes up to
500 mm diameter avoids the need for an operative to enter the excavated trench and
results in less handling of excavated material and reinstatement; but it can only be used for
piping which is sufficiently flexible for pipe lengths to be jointed before lowering into the
trench. It is quicker and cheaper than traditional open cut excavation. However it does not
reduce the risk of disrupting other services and is therefore only suitable for uncongested
locations, or to meet restricted site possession or when rapid laying and reinstatement is
required. Mole ploughing is only used for pulling small diameter pipes through soft
ground.
   The high cost of installing, replacing or renovating small diameter underground pipes
and services by traditional methods including surface reinstatement, has resulted in the
increased use of trenchless construction methods. In addition to the relining methods
discussed above, there is a range of 'no dig' or 'low dig' pipe replacement and tunnelling
techniques, which include pipe bursting, guided boring, thrust boring, and auger boring
 (see Plate 32). These techniques are applicable in urban areas, where the presence of many
 other underground services or much surface traffic makes trenching difficult and
expensive. In pipe bursting a tapered expandable impact mole is winched through an
 existing pipe to break it up and displace the fractured material into the surrounding fill
 material. A new PVC liner pipe, pulled in behind the mole provides external protection to
 a replacement MDPE pipe installed in a second stage operation. Pipes up to 300 mm
 diameter can be installed. Extensive prior site preparation may be necessary to excavate or
 remove steel repair collars, pipe bends and fittings, and concrete surrounds, and to
                                   15.11 Reduction of non-revenue water and leakage      655


disconnect existing mains and service connections to prevent their damage. Ground
disturbance may also occur and be a problem.
   Micro-tunnelling machines for 150-900 mm diameter tunnels have been developed in
which articulated shields, adjustable by means of remotely controlled jacks in the launch
chamber, allow the machines to be accurately steered on course. Muck removal is carried
out by auger or by fluid transport using bentonite or water. The permanent pipe liner is
jacked into position behind the shield. When complete the water pipe is installed and the
annular space filled by grout. A similar technique for pipes over 900 mm diameter is pipe
jacking where a tunnelling shield and string of tunnel lining is jacked into the ground from
the drive shaft to a reception shaft. Lengths of several hundred metres can be achieved.
Directional drilling can be used to install pipes under an obstruction, such as a road,
railway, or river, etc. The technique involves drilling a bore between two shafts sunk either
side of the obstruction, using a remotely controlled articulated drilling head. When
complete the hole is reamed out to the required size and the pipe is pulled through.
Depending on the capacity of the pulling equipment, length of pull and size of pipe, pulls
of up to 1500 m and 800 mm diameter of continuously welded steel pipes have been
achieved.


Control of leakage and losses
15.11 Reduction of non-revenue water and leakage
The chief components of non-revenue water can be divided into the following.
1.   Unmeasured legitimate use, which includes:
      9 legal connections with no payment requirements (connection recorded), e.g.
         standpipe use and (overseas) watering of green areas;
      9 legal connections but consumption not billed (connection not recorded);
      9 demands for fire-fighting (usage could be measured);
      9 street cleaning and sewer flushing (usage could be measured);
      9 old or unmaintained meters (equipment error);
     9 incorrectly read meters (employee error);
     9 incorrect billings (employee error).
2.   Losses and non-legitimate uses, which include:
     9 leakage from distribution network;
     9 leakage and overflows from service reservoirs or water towers;
     9 illegal connections, meter tampering or by-passing;
     9 unreported third party damage to pipework.
Reducing non-revenue water losses needs to be a continuous activity required to maintain
losses within acceptable limits. If not so regarded, overall losses will increase and the
system will deteriorate. To reduce losses and non-revenue water an undertaking must
allocate the necessary resources in terms of expenditure and the use of an adequate
number of properly trained staff. Programmes to educate the consumer in the need to
avoid leakage and wastage will also be necessary.
   However the data forming the basis for such action needs to be validated. Meter error
resulting from the under-recording of consumers' supply meters can represent a significant
percentage of non-revenue water. Low flow consumer demands, particularly at night, are
frequently below a supply meter's stalling speed and hence go unrecorded. Over a period
656     Distribution practice

of time they can, in total, represent an appreciable demand on the system. The accuracy of
consumers' supply meters and the magnitude of their likely under-recording has to be
assessed by methods described in Section 1.3. Where unmetered supplies are given free to
government or other public bodies, or for watering green a r e a s - as occurs in a number of
c o u n t r i e s - checking their consumption is essential. All meters measuring the output of
sources have also to be checked for accuracy: unless regularly serviced they will almost
certainly be in error. Probable meter errors were given in Section 1.13; consumer wastage
was referred to in Section 1.14; and figures for distribution losses were given in Section
1.16.


15.12 Leakage levels experienced
The scale of the problem of locating leaks on the hundreds of kilometres of pipework that
make up a typical water distribution system should not be under-estimated. Modern leak
detection equipment can be used to assist in locating leaks and flow monitoring can assist
in identifying components of system losses, but they are only tools which aid leak
detection. Reducing leakage is therefore inevitably a labour intensive process which has to
be pursued continuously. Table 15.6 presents some typical 'background' leakage levels
which are estimated to occur on UK water distribution networks; and Table 15.7 shows
the likely incidence of defects based upon figures from the annual reports of U K
undertakings.
   The level of leakage experienced depends on a water undertaker's loss reduction policy,
and on the age and condition of its system and the system operating pressure. Policies
depend upon the financial and manpower resources an undertaking can allocate to leakage
control, both for 'one-off exercises to reduce current levels of leakage to a satisfactory
level and for continued application of leakage control to maintain that level. Either in-
house resources can be used, or the work may be put out to a contractor who is set a target
level of leakage he is required to achieve.
   Analysing the record of bursts on mains may reveal those which are particularly prone
to failure. Causes of failure include fracturing due to severe cold weather periods,
prolonged dry spells causing ground movement, mining settlement, poor original
workmanship when laid, age of pipes or their faulty manufacture, inadequate cover for
increased traffic loading, original class strength too low for current pressures, or because


Table   15.6 Typical UK distribution system background leakage levels at 50 m pressure ~2

                                                        Estimated leakage level
Infrastructure element                                  Low            Average              High
Distribution mains (1/km/h)                             20.0           40.0                 60.0
Average for all metered service pipes:
- meter at property boundary (1/connection/h)             1.50           3.00                4.50
- meter in-house (1/connection/h)                         1.75           3.50                5.25
In house plumbing losses
- average over all houses (1/property/h)                 0.25            0.50                0.75
                             15.13 Need for active leakage control and setting of targets     657


Table    15.7 Incidence of defects on mains and service per annum

                                          Average number per annum
Type of defect                            U K 13-16                         Germany 12
Trunk main fracture rate
-mains   in good condition                1.5-2 per 100 km
- below average condition                 6-7 per 100 km
Distribution main fracture rate
- lowest rate                             10-15 per 100 km                  14 per 100   km
- average rate                            20-35 per 100 km
- above average rate                      40-55 per 100 km
Valve, hydrant, and joint defects         1-1.5 times number of
                                          distribution mains fractures
Leakages and other defects on             1-2 per 100 services              0.5 per 100 services
service pipes and stoptaps
Defects on consumers' premises            About 2 per 100 services
causing wastage of water


supply operating conditions have caused cyclic stressing of pipes. Where evidence indicates
that a main fails frequently during the last 5 years, typically more than two or three times
per annum per kilometre, it will probably need to be scheduled for immediate or early
replacement.



15.13 Need for active leakage control and setting of targets
Increasingly financial and environmental pressures have forced water undertakings to
abandon 'passive leakage control' where only visible and reported leaks are repaired, and
instead adopt 'active leakage control'. This is a policy of regularly testing all parts of the
distribution system for signs of leakage, searching for and repairing leaks, and aiming to
achieve an economic level of leakage. The latter is the level at which the cost of saving
additional units of water increases until it equals the cost of producing those units of
water.
   Each separate part of a distribution system will have characteristics which determine its
economic level of leakage. But the parameters determining this level will change as total
percentage losses on the whole system reduce. Each area will have a natural rate of
recurrence of leaks. Left unmaintained the leakage will progressively rise, but the
recurrence rate will vary with supply conditions. For example, on systems where leakage is
so high that pressures are low, reduction of leakage will result in improved pressures which
will be reflected in increased demand until it is satisfied. Only when supply and demand
are in balance will the pressure regime, and hence system leakage targets, stabilise.
   Once leakage has been reduced to a given target level- termed the exit level- active leak
detection and repair measures can be suspended. The area will then need to be monitored
to ascertain when leakage levels have risen to a level at which it is necessary to re-enter the
area and repeat leak reduction measures. This l e v e l - termed the intervention level- is
determined by the combination of a number of parameters. These include the resources
658    D&tribution practice

available within the organisation, both manpower and financial; the unit cost of water in
an area compared with the unit cost of reducing non-revenue water in that area; the other
savings that can be made by reducing losses; and whether other areas should take priority.
The aim of setting targets is to maximise savings by targeting the area(s) which will deliver
the higher value or immediate return. As the characteristics of each area are better
understood, targets and thresholds will need to be reviewed and revised, taking into
account the latest cost information on water production and manpower, and the resources
required to achieve the targets. Where a target has been exceeded or significant
rehabilitation has taken place, it may be appropriate to reduce both the target and the
threshold to reflect the improved physical condition of the asset. Political and
environmental requirements will also influence intervention levels; an undertaking may
need to show it has reduced leakage down to some regulating authority's requirements or
to justify a proposal to develop a new source. Targets for leak reduction therefore require
re-assessment from time to time to ensure they relate to the appropriate source supply
conditions and meet the overall policy requirements.


15.14 Active leakage control
The process of active leakage control comprises monitoring for evidence of leakage;
detection of leaks; and leak repairs. The most effective method of monitoring is to divide
the system into three levels of control, as mentioned in Section 15.1:
9     zones of 10 000 to 25 000 connections or perhaps more;
9     DMAs of typically 500-3000 connections;
9     waste districts of a few hundred connections.
The areas chosen to form these three divisions follow existing system divisions as far as
possible for economy. Flow meters are installed on the feed mains to zones and district
meter areas. Preferably there should be only a single feed main for each zone or DMA,
although this is not always possible. For the waste districts, a by-pass in a chamber is
constructed around a valve on the main feed to the district, so that a waste meter can be
temporarily inserted in the by-pass when waste metering by step-testing takes place (see
Section 15.16). The boundary valves to zones and DMAs are normally kept closed unless,
for operational reasons, some DMAs need to be combined. Pressure monitoring
equipment is also installed at selected critical points in the system.
   Using an integrated telemetering system, zonal and DMA flow and pressure
measurements can be transferred to a control centre where they are monitored and
recorded. Alternatively, on-site data loggers can be used which can be interrogated, and
their data later transferred to the control centre for analysis. Where the integrated system
is used, data assessments can be prepared over-night, the output being a summary report
which identifies areas where flows or pressures are outside pre-defined parameters,
indicating where investigation may be necessary. The daily demand and minimum
nightflows can also be monitored and compared with historic data or calculated
theoretical flows, to identify differences that may need investigation. If on-site data
logging is used, the data is typically downloaded on a 28-day cycle. Hence there is
inevitably a delay before such information is processed.
   A full system as outlined above is not always adopted. Practices vary. Not all
undertakings use waste meter districts, they may rely on DMA flow data to monitor
                                                 15.15 Measurement of pipeline flows 659

consumption and levels of leakage because modern meters are able to measure small
changes of flow more accurately than previously. Anglian Water was reported as having
2500 district meters each covering typically 1500 properties. ~7 South West Water had 65
Water supply zones and 471 district meter areas 'at each of which the diurnal flow is logged
by a permanently installed data logger'. 18
   For many large water undertakings in under-developed countries, the setting up of
many DMAs or waste districts where no provision for this has previously been made is
very expensive, because of the need to purchase and install the meters and probably
replace or repair many boundary valves that need to be in working order for flow
monitoring to be valid. The approach has to be a long-term one, starting with the zonal
metering of supplies, and progressively developing DMAs starting where zonal flows show
losses are probably highest. For undertakings only able to provide intermittent supplies,
quite different methods for checking levels of consumption and losses have to be adopted,
as described in Section 15.17.


15.15 Measurement of pipeline flows
To monitor consumption and check leakage and losses it is desirable to install permanent
meters on the flows to zones and district areas of supply. On large supplies to zones, the
venturi meter or its shorter form the 'Dall tube' (see Section 10.16) has been used in the
past, but these are no longer installed because of their high cost. Instead the
electromagnetic meter (see below) would now be used. For the smaller diameter mains
the inferential meter may continue to be used; equipped with electrical pulse recording
equipment it can log either the total flow or rates of flow at stated intervals. But the
tendency is to replace it with an electromagnetic meter when it needs renewal to save on
long-term maintenance costs.

Temporary flow measurement devices
For the temporary measurement of flows when conducting consumption surveys or when
flow data is required for distribution network analyses, 'probeflow insertion meters' are
useful. These probeflow devices come in two t y p e s - the turbine type, and the
electromagnetic type; the latter being of more recent development. Either is inserted
through a tapping in the main at the location where measurement of flow is required. The
turbine type (see Plate 34) has a small vane at its end the rotation of which records the
velocity of flow past the vane. The electromagnetic probe has an electromagnet at its end
which applies a magnetic field to the water, and electrodes either side of the probe at the
same level pick up the induced EMF in the water which is proportional to the velocity of
flow past the electrodes. The vane probeflow has the disadvantage that if its vane is
damaged (or thought to be damaged) the instrument has to go back to the makers for
recalibration and repair if necessary.
   Either type of probe is used to record the centreline velocity of flow, but in order to
derive from this the mean or total flow through the pipe, the velocity profile across the
pipe diameter has to be determined. The probe has to be set at different points across the
diameter to measure the velocities at these. The measurements taken are modified for each
measurement point to take account of the disturbance caused by the instrument in the
water (e.g. increased velocity), and then the velocity ratios to the centreline velocity are
calculated to give the mean pipe velocity and the consequent total rate of flow according
660   Distribution practice


to the internal diameter of the pipe. This correction also takes some account of wall
friction and any abnormal flow profile. For a 'perfect' profile the velocity r a t i o -
meanflow to centreline f l o w - is 0.833, but in practice it can range from 0.7 to 1.0. The
further the ratio is from 0.833 the more caution must be used in applying the result, e.g.
the ratio may vary with mean velocity. The internal diameter of the pipe has to be
measured accurately, and the number of flow profile readings required are five for pipes of
150 mm diameter; nine for 300 ram; and 13 for larger diameters. The measurements need
to be repeated at least three times to ensure the ratio is consistent and repeatable, and the
flow must be relatively constant during each profile run. In practice there may be difficulty
in obtaining consistent results so that several attempts may be necessary, the poor field
conditions often applying making it difficult to conduct precise measurements. Once the
profile is satisfactorily established, the instrument is set at the centreline and a data logger
is attached. The tapping for a turbine probeflow is 40 mm diameter and the minimum pipe
diameter in which it can be installed is 200 mm. The tapping for an electromagnetic probe
is 20.mm diameter, usually installed on pipes of not less than 150 mm diameter. At present
electromagnetic probes are only made up to 1 m long, so they can only just be used in 900-
 1000 mm maximum diameter pipes where the flow rate does not exceed 1.75-2.0 m/s
because of the probe's flexibility. These limitations, however, will rarely be significant in
the usual distribution system.

Permanent flowmeter installations
The permanent type of electromagnetic flowmeter (see Plate 34) is now widely used for
monitoring and recording flows from sources, pumping stations and reservoirs, and for
the measurement of zonal and district metering areas. They can also be used for step-
testing in waste metering (see Section 15.16). They are available in a full range of sizes
from 15 mm to 2400 mm and can be mains or battery powered. They have the advantages
of ease of installation, low maintenance, accuracy, and negligible head loss. They can be
equipped with full telemetry interface capability to meter requirements for district
metering, customer billing, leakage control and treatment works applications. They must
however be carefully installed, requiring a minimum of five diameters of straight pipe
upstream and two diameters downstream. Frequently they are sited too close to fittings,
valves or tees, or are affected by protruding gaskets and other factors such as vibration,
flooding, or large ambient temperature swings.
   When purchasing a magnetic flowmeter, the manufacturer usually gives a written
specification for the instrument and a flow calibration certificate from a recognised test
bench. However, nearly all flowmeters that are tested in a flow laboratory are installed in
pipelines where the conditions are different. This invariably leads to a shift in performance
between laboratory and site, due to installation effects. Hence without in situ testing it is
likely a meter will possess unknown metering errors. If it is then used to estimate leakage
 or water imbalances, the basic data coming from such meters may be open to question.
Some types of meters and some specific designs do experience installation effects and the
 only means of establishing these is to perform a traceable calibration in situ against a
 known field standard. The field standard may have to comprise some master meter of
 proved accuracy, the use of volumetric measurement, or merely using other flowmeters
 temporarily installed as a cross check of the meter under test. Recently 'digital
 fingerprinting' has been added to these techniques. This tests the electrical characteristics
 of a magnetic meter which should be basically stable with time. Provided the electrical field
                                                                     15.16 Leak location     661


remains constant and other key electrical parameters within the circuitry are also stable, it
is possible to relate the electrical 'fingerprint' of a meter and transmitter back to a change
in meter calibration. This method should also be traceable in situ and is not a calibration,
but a check that the calibration has not changed within known limits. All such in situ or
other testing should be conducted by an experienced engineer.
   Despite the growing use of electromagnetic meters, many older meters of the venturi or
Dall type remain in operation, most usually at source works. If properly maintained they
can continue to give satisfactory readings. In particular, however, the throat of a venturi
meter needs inspection from time to time to ensure that it is clean and free of slime or
deposits that would otherwise affect its accuracy. For this purpose a hatch is usually
provided over the throat of a venturi. The recording equipment, usually mechanical, also
needs keeping in good order. To be certain that source outputs are known as accurately as
possible, in situ volumetric testing of such meters is always advisable.


15.16 Leak location
The leak detection methods that are available include: (1) waste metering/step-testing;
(2) 'sounding'; (3) leak noise correlation and other location equipment, and (4) visual
observation.


(1) Waste metering/step-testing
Waste metering and step-testing comprise metering the night flow to a small part of the
distribution system, and then shutting down the mains within the area, one by one, so the
meter registers the drop in flow with each main shut down. A larger drop in flow than
would be expected from the estimated night consumption by properties connected to the
main may indicate the main has a leak. This 'step-testing' as it is called, is only practicable
on 24-hour supply systems. For each waste area a valved by-pass on the feed main to the
district is constructed in a chamber and, for step-testing, all flow to the area is passed
through a 'waste meter' installed on this bypass with all other feeds shut off. The mains
within the area are then shut down according to a pre-arranged timetable. Alternatively
step-testing may be applied to a district metered area if it is of suitable size and the district
meter (usually electromagnetic) is sufficiently sensitive to measure changes of flow as each
main is shut down. The results of the test are interpreted and passed to the district
inspector to arrange for further investigations to locate a possible leak. After all leaks
suspected have been found and repaired the night test is repeated to confirm that there has
been an improvement.
   Technology developments have reduced the time required to analyse the flow data
during step-testing. After shutting down a main, the waste inspector may use a mobile
phone to interrogate the waste meter and find its drop in recording. Comparing this with
data held in a laptop computer he or she can judge whether the drop in flow relates
reasonably to the number of domestic connections on the main and any expected non-
domestic night-time demand.
   The cost of step-testing tends to be high. A chambered by-pass can be expensive to
construct, all boundary valves have to tested to ensure they shut off properly, if not, they
must be repaired; and the shutting and opening of mains isolating valves is time-
consuming. Also a distribution manager may be reluctant to permit step-testing if there is
662   Distribution practice

any risk of dirty water contamination resulting from the inevitable re-routing of supplies
or from high velocities caused in mains when reopening valves.


(2) Sounding
The sound made by water leaking from a pipe is the basis of the majority of leak location
techniques and electronic equipment. Under traditional 'sounding' an inspector uses a
'listening stick', which may be a light bar of solid metal about 1.5 m long or the bar of a
valve key. Purpose-made listening sticks are sometimes equipped with an earpiece. One
end of the stick is placed on an exposed part of the main or service pipe, such as a valve or
hydrant spindle or stopcock, and the other is placed against the ear. The sound emitted by
a leak, if audible, is 'a low drumming noise' or 'a continuous buzzing sound' and tends to
be continuous without any change of audibility or quality. It stops abruptly when, and if,
the water can be turned off. An experienced waste inspector using a listening stick can
detect even a small leak at a distance of 10-15 m, if it is making a sound. By listening at
another point of contact on the main, the inspector can judge by the difference in sound
volume the probable location of the leak.
    Sounding is frequently done at night when background noise should be low. However
an experienced operator can still be successful during the day away from main roads and
where there are lulls in traffic noise. Daytime sounding may also be preferred because, at
night, parked cars may prevent access to valves and stopcocks. Sounding all pipes in a
system is not usually adopted because it is very labour intensive, and relatively ineffective
on non-metallic pipes and not efficient at identifying new or increased leakage as it occurs.
In the UK where a high percentage of service connections do not leak, an inspector can
sound up to 200 connections per shift. Overseas where pressures are lower and
background conditions are less favourable, an experienced inspector should be able to
sound 80-120 connections per day, on average. Ground microphones which amplify the
sound of a leak are effective for leaks from non-ferrous pipes. It must be borne in mind,
however, that not all leaks emit a sound, and the volume of sound emitted is mostly not
related to the size of the leak.


(3) Use of leak noise correlation and other equipment
Leak noise correlators are electronic devices for amplifying the sound of a leak and
judging its location. The software analyses the sounds from two points of contact with a
main, matching the sound traces by time-delaying one, and so judging the position of the
leaks between the two points of contact by measuring the time-delay used. Recent
developments in the electronics for the sound filters allow finer location determination,
particularly for multiple leaks, and uses lower frequencies for testing for leaks on non-
metallic pipes including plastic pipes.
   Acoustic loggers are deployed in groups, typically three to five, in areas where there is a
 high continuous transient noise. They record the noise on the system over a period of time,
 typically a week. When retrieved, the data is analysed to filter out the background and
 'normal' system noises and hence locate leaks. A group of acoustic loggers can successfully
 detect and locate a number of leaks at different locations within the triangulation of the
 deployed loggers. When used regularly within a system, system noise profiles can be
 developed and used to assess system changes and predict the need for intervention.
                                                                    15.17 Repairing leaks     663


   Pipeline integrity management systems use continuously monitored flow and pressure
data linked to hydraulic modelling software to provide on-line active leak detection on a
pipeline. The technology, developed from the oil and gas industry, is suitable for
application to lengths of trunk main where pipe failure could be damaging and would need
immediate, automatic shutdown of a section of the main. The technology uses flow and
pressure measurements to continuously assess the performance of the main between the
sensing points and compares the measured values against normal pipe performance
characteristics. Where the software detects abnormal measurements, the software
calculates the location of a leak and initiates the closure of appropriate valves in order
to isolate the fractured length of pipe. The equipment is expensive to install and maintain
but cost effective in terms of the consequential damage that might otherwise have occurred
if a large pipeline were to develop a serious leak.



(4) Visual observation
Many leaks are reported first by the public. However more can be found by searching for
surface signs of them. The district inspector should visit the whole of his or her supply area
regularly and will know where leaks are possible. Damp patches, trickles of running water
and extra vegetation growth close to pipe alignments, valves or fire hydrants, or above
ferrules or stop taps, may be indicative of a leak. The inspector will also be able to detect
signs of consumer wastage, such as overflows discharging outside properties. However,
beneath metalled roads, or where mains are laid in freely draining ground, or adjacent to
or below a water course, even large leaks may give no surface sign of existence. Trunk
main routes through open country should be inspected from time to time for signs of
leakage.



15.17 Repairing leaks
 Confirmation of the existence of a leak is only obtained when a pipe is exposed and the
leak located. However, the repair can be expensive, especially if the leak is under a heavily
trafficked road or road junction, and special planning of the repair operation may be
necessary to minimise traffic disruption. The relevant road authorities will have to be prior
informed and all their requirements met. If the leak is known to be small and unlikely to
increase, and its repair is expensive and would cause serious traffic delays resulting in
 strong adverse publicity, the water undertaking may be faced with the problem of how to
repair the l e a k - if at all. Various 'no-dig' possibilities outlined in Sections 15.9 and 15.10
may assist, and repair from inside the pipe may offer a solution if internal access is
possible.
    Where the work of leak detection is let out to a contractor, the contract should require
the contractor to confirm the existence of leaks detected by excavating down onto them.
Where the contractor is also required to repair leaks, payment should be made against
reductions in assessed leakage flows, not the number of excavations necessary to locate
leaks, which would involve payment for abortive excavations where no leak is found. Also
payment by reduction of leakage flows avoids the problem of deciding what size of leak
justifies being repaired leaving this decision to the contractor.
     MANAGEMENT            CONSUMPTION                                 DISTRIBUTION                     HYDRAULIC                   DISTRIBUTION                  POLICIES
     INFORMATION           SURVEY                                      SURVEY                           ANALYSIS                    DEVELOPMENT                   FOR CLIENT
     SURVEY                                                                                                                         DESIGN                        DECISION
     Mains records        Test metering     t                          Source meter . . . .          Population                     Development plans             Priority areas
     Customer billing     domestic              Estimated              accuracy                      analyses
     Customer surveys                           legitimate                                           Nodal areas
                                                                                                                                    and programme
                                                                                                                                    New population                   I
                                                                       Mains . . . . . . . . .                                                                    Levels of
     Levels of service;   Trade demand          demand                                               Nodal demands                  estimates
                                                                       conditions                                                                                 service
      9pressures;         analysis                                                                                                  New nodel areas
      9interruptions;                                                  Levels of . . . . .
                                                                                                     System analyses
                                                                                                 - - ~ Source inputs
                                                                                                                                    x demands                        I
      9quality                                                         leakage                                                      New trade demands             Tariffs
     Customer             Survey of             Consumer                                               Pipe friction
                                                wastage                Pressure . . . .                Values
     complaints           metering
                                                                                                          9Estimated leakage
                                                                                                                                          i     _
     Specific             practices                 I                  and flow         1
                                                                                                         9Operational setup
     performance                                Illegal                surveys
     surveys                                    connections                    w                         9Legitimate demand               1st Priority        2nd Priority
                                                                               1                        9Consumer wastage               areas system         areas system
                                                                                                                                       design phase (1)     design phase (2)

       Operational        Metering               Consumer                Present                  Present                Current        Distribution              Capital
       records of         improvements           waste control           demand                   system                 financing      development               expenditure
       performance        required               needs                   estimate                 requirements           needs          design                    planning
     Inspectors reports     9meter types           9standpipe policy     standpipe
                                                                          9                          source
                                                                                                     9      meter        Estimated        9new sources and         Future
     Levels of service      9maintenance          tariff
                                                   9     policy          domestic
                                                                          9                         repairs                              supply areas
     and leakage           9meter reading         9service              trade/industry
                                                                         9                           zonal
                                                                                                     9     metering                      trunk
                                                                                                                                          9     pipeline
     Telemetry system     & billing              connection              9institutional             9standpipe needs     Costs           development               Capital
     Water quality         9repair shops         policy                 9unavoidable               9leak detection and                   9phased zonal
     databases            & testing              9plumbing              wastage                   repair program                        development
     Risk analysis &      9meter stocks          standards              supply
                                                                        9          meter           9mains records        Involved        distribution
                                                                                                                                         9             system      Expenditure
     system failure       staff
                          9      training        9materials             errors                    updating                              development
     records                                     9byelaws                                         9staffing & training                   standpipe
                                                                                                                                         9           design
     System and plant                                                                                                                   and locations              Programme
     maintenance                                                                                                                        continued
                                                                                                                                         9           waste
     records                                                                                                                            control measures
                                                                                                                                        9mains rehabilitation
                                                                                                                                        an'd costs
                                                                                                                                        depots,
                                                                                                                                        9         stock policy,
                                                                                                                                        plant and equipment
                                                                                                                                        organisational
                                                                                                                                        9
                                                                                                                                        developments
                                                                                                                                        staffing
                                                                                                                                        9         and training
Fig. 15.5   Schematic for starting a distribution system rehabilitation and development project.
                                                                             References 665

15.18 Rehabilitation, leak detection and development of distribu-
      tion systems in disrepair
Many large public water supply undertakings in parts of the world have distribution
systems in need of rehabilitation and repair. Total losses or unaccounted-for water of 50-
55% of the supply can be reported, made up of unknown proportions of distribution
leakage, consumer wastage, and failure to meter or bill all consumers taking a supply. It is
not easy to rectify a large system of this sort in a short time; the approach has inevitably to
be in progressive stages of improvement. An indication of the work involved in starting off
a rehabilitation project is given in Fig. 15.5.
   The difficulties of rehabilitation are increased in the many undertakings where supplies
have to be intermittent because of the scarcity of supplies, often exacerbated by the large
losses of water (and revenue) through leaks, wastage, and unpaid supplies. Traditional
methods of leak detection suitable for 24-hour supplies, such as waste metering, step-
testing and sounding, become impracticable because many consumers leave taps open,
ready to discharge water into storage receptacles to cover periods of non-supply. Even the
procedure of valving off lengths of main to put them under a pressure test for leakage after
shutting down all service pipes, may be vitiated by the lack of stop-valves on service pipes,
or leaking ferrule connections or tappings to the main, and many illegal or unknown
connections. Often a first attempt at a pressure test results in a burst main because the
system has long been on intermittent supply at low pressures, or it may be difficult to gain
any pressure because of leaking boundary valves or the existence of some unknown
connection which has not been marked on the mains record plans.
   A more productive approach can be the direct one of exposing the soffit of lengths of
main in selected areas to find the principal causes of loss. Often it will be found that high
losses are due to one or more of the following - badly made service pipe tappings on the
main; illegal and unknown connections; illegal by-passes to customer meters; leaking
service pipes not fitted with a stopcock; service pipes continuously taking water because of
waste on consumers' premises. Where the groundwater table level is high, or the ground is
very free draining, or a pipe is laid close to or under a river, high rates of leakage from a
pipe joint or a cracked pipe may be found which have given no surface indication of their
existence.
   Although the remedial measure of exposing the soffit of mains is time consuming and
relatively expensive, it has the merit of directly reducing leakage, and can aid the finding of
leaking joints in the main. It is not as expensive for many countries as relaying a main since
it is primarily labour-intensive work involving the use of less expensive materials and
plant. Attempts to find all leaks on a pipe network known to be in poor condition by using
various methods of surface detection equipment and flow monitoring, can be very
frustrating because of repeated failure to get an acceptable result when a system is re-
tested. This non-success after so much work reduces motivation to pursue leak detection.
The direct approach gives positive results and, if pursued, can bring increased efficiency in
finding leaks through experience and increasing areas of the system put into a good
condition.


References
  1. Fire Services Act 1947, and the Water Industry Act 1991.
666           Distribution practice

     National Guidance Document on the Provision of Water for Fire Fighting, Water UK,
      ,




     1999
     BS750:1984 Underground fire hydrants and surface box frames and covers.
      ,




  4. BS 1387:1985 Screwed and Socketed Steel Tubes and Tubulars and for Plain End
     Steel Tubes Suitable for Welding or for Screwing to BS21 Pipe Threads.
     BS 3505:1986 Unplasticised Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC-U) Pressure Pipes for Cold
     Potable Water.
     BS 6572:1985 Blue Polyethylene Pipes up to Nominal Size 63 for Below Ground Use
     for Potable Water Supply.
     BS 6730:1986 Black Polyethylene Pipes up to Nominal Size 63 for Above Ground
     Use for Potable Water Supply.
     BS 6700:1987 Design, Installation, Testing and Maintenance of Services for
     Supplying Water for Domestic Use.
     Planning the Rehabilitation of Water Distribution Systems, WRc, 1989.
          ,




 10. IWEM Monographs of Best Practice No. 1, The Rehabilitation of Water Pipelines,
     1996
 11. Trenchless Technology Manual, WRc, 1995.
 12. Lambert, Myers & Trow, Managing Water Leakage, Financial Times Energy, 1998.
 13. Reed E. C. Report on Water Losses. Aqua, JIWSA, 1980, p. 178.
 14. Lackington D. W. Survey of Renovation of Water Mains, Paper No. 4, Proc
     Symposium on the Deterioration of Underground Assets, IWES, 1983.
 15. Clark P. G. Factors Relating to the Deterioration of Water Mains, Paper No. 2,
     Symposium referred to in Reference 13.
 16. Newport R. Factors Influencing the Occurrence of Bursts in Iron Water Mains.
     Aqua, JIWSA, 1980, p. 274.
 17. Water and Environmental Manager. JCIWEM, July 1997, p. 20.
 18. Water and Environmental Manager. JCIWEM, May 1996, p. 8.
                         Conversion factors


Metric to British units                                               British to metric units
Length:
        lm-       39.37 in                                                  1 in = 2 5 . 4 0 m m
        1 m = 3.2808 ft                                                      1 ft = 304.80 m m
        1m =       1.0936 y d                                               1 yd = 0.91440 m
    1 km      --- 0 . 6 2 1 4 m i l e                                    1 mile =        1.60934 k m
Note." I n n o m i n a l s i z i n g 300 m m is t a k e n as e q u i v a l e n t to 1 ft a n d 25 m m as e q u i v a l e n t to
1 in.

Area."
    1 m2 =        1.196 y d 2 =         10.764 ft 2                        1 ft 2 = 0 . 0 9 2 9 m 2
    1 h a = 2.471 a c r e s                                               1 y d 2 = 0.8361 m 2
  1 km 2 = 0.386 square mile                                             1 acre = 0.4047 ha
                                                             1 square mile = 2.5900 km 2
Notes."
1 km 2 =        100 h a ( h e c t a r e s ) a n d 1 h a =       10000 m 2.
1 s q u a r e m i l e = 640 a c r e s a n d 1 a c r e = 4 8 4 0 y d 2


Volume."
    1 m 3 = 35.314ft 3                                                      1 ft 3 = 0 . 0 2 8 3 2 m 3
   1 m 3 = 1.3079 y d 3                                                    1 ft 3 = 28.32 litres
   1 m 3 = 219.97 gallons (British)                                       1 y d 3 --- 0 . 7 6 4 5 6 m 3
  1 litre = 0 . 2 1 9 9 7 g a l l o n                     1 B r i t i s h g a l l o n = 4 . 5 4 6 litres
    1 M1 = .0.21997 M g a l l o n                              1 U S g a l l o n = 3.785 litres

Notes:
1 m3 =        10001itresand             1 M1 =      1 0 0 0 m 3.
1 U S g a l l o n = 0 . 8 3 2 6 7 B r i t i s h g a l l o n ; a l s o 1 ft 3 = 6 . 2 2 8 8   British gallons.


Mass:
     1 k g = 2 . 2 0 4 6 lb                                                 1 lb = 0.453 59 k g
  50 k g = 0 . 9 8 4 2 c w t                                              1 c w t -- 5 0 . 8 0 2 k g
1 t o n n e = 19.684 c w t                                                1 t o n = 1.01605 t o n n e
1 tonne = 0.9842 ton
668      Conversion factors

Pressure."
1 metre head          of w a t e r                 1 ft h e a d o f w a t e r
            =          1.422 1b/in 2                                       =    0.03048 k g f / c m 2
 1 kgf/cm 2 =          14.223 lb/in 2                                      =    0.00299 N / m m 2
 1 N/mm 2 =            145.038 lb/in 2                           1 lb/in 2 =    0.0703 k g f / c m 2
                                                                           =    0.006895 N / m m 2
Notes:
1   N/mm      2 = 10.197 k g f / c m 2, 1 k g f / c m 2 = 10 m e t r e s h e a d of water, a n d
1   bar =      10.197 m e t r e s h e a d of water.
1   lb/in 2   = 2.3067 ft h e a d of water.
1   pascal     = 1 N / m 2.

Density."
1 k g / m 3 = 0.06243 lb/ft 3                                 1 lb/ft 3 = 16.018 k g / m 3

Flow rates:
    1 m3/s = 35.31 ft3/s                                       1 ft3/s = 0.0283 m3/s
    1 m3/s = 19.00 m g d                                       1 m g d = 0.05262 m3/s
                                                                       = 4.546 M1/day
1 litre/s = 13.20 g p m = 0.019 m g d                          1 g p m = 0.0758 litre/s

Notes"
m g d = million gallons per day; g p m = gallons per m i n u t e .
l m3/s = 86.4 x 103m3/day = 86.4 M1/day.
1 ft3/s -- 86400 ft3/day = 0.53817 m g d .
1 M1/day = 1000 m 3 / d a y = 0.22 m g d .

Hydrological units:
1 litre/s per k m 2                                          1 ft3/s per 1000 acres
          = 0.09146 ft3/s per 1000 acres                               = 6.997 litres/s per k m 2
1 m m rainfall per k m 2                                     1 ft3/s per s q u a r e mile
          = 1000 m 3                                                   = 10.933 litres/s per k m 2
          = 0.220 M g                                        1 in rainfall per s q u a r e mile
                                                                       = 65786 m 3
                                                                       = 14.471 million gallons.
Filtration rate:
Note."
100 gallons per ft 2 per h o u r = 117.44 m 3 per m 2 p e r d a y
                                 = 4.89 m / h
Power."
 1 joule (J) = 0.73756 ft lb                       1 h o r s e p o w e r (hp) = 0.74570 k W
        lkW       -    1.3410hp


Notes."
     1 J/s = 1 w a t t (W).
     1 M1/day o f w a t e r raised t h r o u g h 8.81 m = 1 k W (at 100% efficiency).
     1 hp = 550 ft lb/s.
                                      Index

Acidity 197                                   Bacteria in water
Actinomycete 254, 270, 401                       C. perfringens (C. welchii) 249
Activated alumina 293                            Coliform and E. coli 244-5
Activated carbon, see Granular activated         diseases caused by 240-2
       carbon and Powdered activated carbon      examination for 248-52
ADI (acceptable daily intake) 223                kill rate by chlorine 434-5
Adits to wells 118                               raw water classification basis 233
Advanced oxidation processes 406                 sampling for 249-51
Aeration and aerators                            standards for 245-7
   bubble type for reservoirs 270-1           Badenoch reports 243, 350
   cascade 390                                BATNEEC requirement 45
   for ammonia reduction 397                  Base exchange process, see Softening
   for iron removal 373, 381                  Base flow index 81
   for taste reduction 402                    Bicarbonate hardness 207
   for VOC removal 399-400                    Bilharzia 257
   packed tower 392                           Biological activated carbon reactors (BACs) 405
   spray 393                                  Biological oxygen demand (BOD) 200
Aftergrowth in mains 459                      Boiling water for disinfection 457
                                              Boosting 541-4
Agricultural demand 17, 18
                                              Boreholes, see Wells and boreholes
Air valves 603-7
                                              Break-pressure tank 624
Algae 197, 255-9
                                              Bromate 205, 452
   blue-green 256-7
                                              Bromide 200
   effect on filters 284-6
                                              Bruin & Hudson curve 129
   removal by flotation 286
                                              BSE issues 263
   removal by microstrainers 230              Byelaws, waterworks 650-1
   toxins 256
Alkalinity 198
                                              Calcium 201
Aluminium 198
                                              Calcium hypochlorite for disinfection 448
Aluminium sulphate 312                        Carbon, see Granular activated carbon and
Ammonia-chlorine treatment 436, 443                  Powdered activated carbon
Ammoniacal compounds 199                      Carbon dioxide 201
   effect on iron removal 383                 Catchment- area estimation 64
   removal methods 397-9                         losses 75
Ameobic dysentery 242                            long-term average runoff 79
Anthracite filter media 331-3                 Catchment water balance 63
Aquatic plants 255-7                          Catchwater yield 104
Aquifer yield characteristics 123             Cathodic protection of pipes 575
Aquifers, significant 114                     Cavitation 169, 407, 551
Arsenic 199                                   Channel flow 474, 484
   removal of 384-8                              Chezy formula 485
Artificial recharge 140                          critical depth 477
Asbestos in water 200                            hydraulic jump 486
Asellus in water 459                             non-uniform flow in 487-90
Asset management 57, 614                      Chemical analysis methods 238
Atrazine 45, 214                              Chemical mixing and dosing 303-9
670   Index


Chemical oxygen demand (COD) 213           Collector wells 145
Chemicals used in water treatment          Colour in water 202
   properties of 302-7                        removal of 407
Chloral hydrate 205                        Compensation water flows 105
Chlorate and chlorite- limits for 205      Computer modelling of
   from chlorine dioxide 447                  catchment 81, 89
   from hypochlorite 445                      distribution system 634-4, 636, 663
Chloride of lime 448                          groundwater 126, 139
Chloride 201                                  water quality 635
Chlorinated solvents 202                   Conductivity 206
Chlorine and chlorination 430 et seq.      Conjunctive use of sources 106-8, 139
   ammonia chlorine process 436, 443       Consumption (and demand) for water
   application plant 439-42                   agricultural 17, 18
   breakpoint 437                             air conditioners 9
   contact time 432-4                         consumer wastage 21, 26
   dechlorination 442                         distribution losses 23, 24
   efficiency factors 431-2, 434-5            domestic 4-9, 11, 13, 14
   residual 202, 432                          elasticity of demand 26, 55
   super-chlorination 437                     fittings usage 10, 648-9
   taste problems 439                         maximum day/hour 32-4
   trihalomethane production 435              metering errors 19
Chlorine application:                         sprinkler and garden use 9, 11
   electrolytic production 443-5              standpipe 13, 14
   gas use and safety requirements 441        test metering of 4
   tablet and powder forms, etc. 448-9        total 2, 3
   testing apparatus 445                      trade and industrial 15-17
   to mains 457-9                             UK consumption 28-30
Chlorine dioxide 446                          USA 2, 7, 9, 10-11, 13, 17, 25-6, 31
   for iron removal 381                    Control of Pollution Act 38
   limits to use 205                       Copper 203
Chloroacetic acids 205                     Coral island hydrology 142
Chlorophenols 206                          Corrosion/corrosiveness 203, 407-11
Cholera 240                                   bacterial 408
Clarification and clarifiers 277 et seq.      of various waters 410-11
   chemical mixing 277-80                     Langelier index 409
   coagulation and flocculation 280-4      Critical depth flume 68
   dissolved air flotation 298-301         Critical depth of flow 477
   detention times 289                     Crump weir 67, 492
   high rate 293                           Cryptosporidiosis 242-3
   horizontal 286-9                        Cryptosporidium oocysts 349-52
   lamella plate 294-7                        inactivation by ozone 350
   Pulsator 290                               reduction by membrane filtration 338, 342
   Sirofloc process 298                       reduction by UV radiation 456
   sludge blanket 289-93                      removal by slow sand filters 350
   sludge disposal 301-3                      reports on by Group of Experts 243, 350-2
   tube settlers 293                          resistance to chlorine 242, 350, 435
Coagulants 312-7                           Current meters, use of 67
   aids 316                                Cutoffs to dams 153-158
   aluminimum sulphate 312                 Cyanide 204
   iron coagulants 313
   PAC1 313                                Dam defects and failures
   properties of 314-5                       Bouzey (failure) 158
    sodium aluminate 313                     Carsington 176
COCO-DAFF filter 300                         Dolgarrog (disaster) 153
                                                                                     Index      671


   Gleno (failure) 158                              hypochlorite powders etc 448
   Lluest Wen (defect) 164                          hypochlorite solutions 443-5, 449
   Malpasset (failure) 158                          ozone 450
   Oros (overtopping) 166                           UV radiation 455
   St. Francis (failure) 158                        of mains and tanks 457-9
   Tarbela (tunnel failure) 169                 Disinfestation of mains 347
   Tittesworth (failure) 176                    Dissolved air flotation 298-301
   Vaiont (failure) 153                         Distribution system
Dam design aspects                                  characteristics 626-7
   bellmouth overflow 167                           cleaning and relining mains 652-5
   cavitation damage 168                            computer analysis of flows 632-5
   cutoffs and corewalls 153-8                      fracture rates 657
   deterioration signs 187                          leakage and losses 22-6, 656
   drawoffs 168-9                                   network design and performance 628, 631,
   durability requirements 158                                651
   flood routing 161--4                             organisation of 638-41
   freeboard 166                                    populations per km of main 629
   grouting 154                                     rehabilitation of 665
   ICE Guide 159, 186                               repair times 501
   ice thrust 178                               DoE Secretary of State 44, 46
   rapid drawdown danger 174                    Drinking Water Inspectorate 40, 44
   pore-pressures in 171-3                      Drinking water standards 221-232
   Reservoirs Act 1975 186                          bacteriological 246
   safety provisions 186                            for approved materials 239
   scour capacity 169                               for physical and general characteristics 222-3
   slip circle analysis 160, 173-5                  for inorganic substances 224-5
   spillway design 162, 166, 479                    for organic substances 226-30
    surface protection 176                          virological 253
   unit hydrograph, use of 161                  D r o u g h t - flow rankings 90, 95
   uplift 178                                       rainfalls 80
Dam types - arch 181-2                              runoffs 81
   buttress 183                                 Dysentery 241-2
   earth 170-7
   gravity 158, 178-80                          EBCT, definition of 386
   rockfill 183                                 EC Standard for raw waters 233-4
   roller compacted concrete 181                Electrodialysis 413
Dangerous substances 'Red List' 45-6               for fluoride reduction 388
Demand for water, see Consumption                  for nitrate reduction 396-7
Demineralisation 378                            Elasticity of water demand 26, 55
   see also Reverse osmosis; Electrodialysis    Endocrine disrupters - issues 261
Desalination methods 412-23                     Enterovirulent E. c o l i - issues 263
   costs 422-3                                  Environment Agency 40, 43
Detergents in water 204                         Epilimnion 269
Dezincification 411                             Eutrophic waters 256, 269
Dilution gauging 68                             Evaporation and evapotranspiration 73, 75-7
Director General of Water Services 38, 42, 43
   service levels targets 615                   Ferric coagulants 313
Diseases, waterborne 240-4                      Filters, see also Rapid gravity filters; Slow
Disinfection by-products 204                        sand filters; Granular activated carbon
Disinfection processes:                             anthracite 331-3
   boiling 457                                      cartridge 342
   chlorination 430-35                              cross-flow microfilters 337-41
   chlorine dioxide 446                             diatomaceous earth 342
   contact times 432                                for iron removal 381-2
672   Index


Filters c o n t i n u e d                      modelling 126
   membrane 337-41                             percolation measurement 121
   miscellaneous types of 341-2                recession curve 119
   nanofiltration 414                          recharge 119
   pressure 328-31                             rising levels of 116
   problems of 336                             types of abstraction works 118
   upward flow 335                             yields 117-9, 122
Financing of water supply 56
   asset management plans 57                 Hardness 207, 371
   charges for water 61                      Hazen units of colour in water 202-3
   depreciation 57                           Helminth, see Worms
   of capital works 56-7                     Hepatitis 244
   marginal costing 60                       Humic and fulvic acids 206, 213, 284, 382, 403,
   meter tariffs 61                                411
Fire demand 641-2, 643
                                             Hydrants, see Fire demand
Fish passes 189
                                             Hydraulics of
Fittings, friction loss in 474-5, 640
                                               channel flow 474, 484, 487-90
Flocculation 277-84
                                               flumes and gates 481-2, 493-5
Flood estimation
                                                Froude numbers 483
    by use of mean annual flood 85, 86
                                                orifice meters 495-7
   design flood hydrographs 86
                                               pipeline flows 464-8, 474
    in UK 86
                                                service pipe flows 487-9
   probability analyses 85
                                               venturis 495-7
   routing calculations 161-4
Flow rates - for service pipes 649             weirs 480, 490-3
   for maximum demands 32-4, 626             Hydraulic flow formulae
Fluoride 207                                    Bernoulli's equation 464
Fluoridation/defluoridation 389                Chezy 485
Foot valves to pumps 550                       Colebrook-White 468
French water organisation 50                    D'Arcy 468
Friction losses                                 Hazen-Williams 471
   in mains fittings 474-5                      Manning's 472, 484
    in pipes 470-3                           Hydraulic jump 486
    in service pipes 649                     Hydraulic ram 531
                                             Hydrocarbons 208.
Gauging, rivers and streams 66-9             Hydrogen peroxide
Geophysical investigations 131                  for VOC removal 400
Giardiasis 243                                  used with ozone 406, 452
Giardia cysts                                Hydrogen sulphide removal 402
   inactivation by chlorine 432-3, 435       Hydrological data collection 65
   inactivation by ozone 450                 Hydrology software 74
   removal of 353                            Hydrology of well yields 117-9
Granular activated carbon (GAC)                 of aquifer yields 123-6
   adsorbers 333-5, 400, 403-5               Hydrographs- design drought 81
   biological reactors 405                      design flood 84-7, 160
   filters for organics removal 333, 403-6      unit 161
   for taste reduction 402                   Hydrostat 531
   method of making 403-5                    Hypochlorite 443-5
Graphitisation of mains 408                     by-products 445
Gravity main design 620-3                       calcium form 448
Grit tanks 277                                  sodium form 449
Groundwater- aquifers 114, 123                  on site generation 443-5
   baseflows 82                                 production from seawater 445
   mining 141                                Hypolimnion 269
                                                                                Index     673


Ice thrust on dams 178                         Nitrate and nitrites 206, 211
Impounding reservoirs, see Reservoirs             reduction methods 394-7
Infiltration galleries 194                     Nitrate sensitive areas 45
Iodide 200                                     Northern Ireland water organisation 46-7
Ion exchange 378, 413
Iron (and manganese) 209                       Odour, see Taste and odour
   bacteria 253. 459                           Organic matter 213
   coagulants 313                              Organic micropollutants 213
   removal of 379-84                             removal of 403
Isohyetal maps 71                              Organisation
                                                 of distribution dept 638-41
Jacob's well formula 124                         of water services UK 36, 39-42
                                                 staffing levels 53
Langelier index 409                            Oxidisation
Lead in water 209                                by potassium permanganate 402
   removal of 385-7                              for iron and manganese removal 379-83
Leaks, leakage and losses                        of VOC 400
   active leakage control 657-9                Ozone 450 et seq.
   from mains 23-4                               action of 450
   from service reservoirs 24                    by-products from 452
   from supply pipes 21                          for advanced oxidation processes 406
   levels of 656                                 for inactivation of viruses, etc. 450
                                                 for iron and manganese removal 379-83
   methods for detection 661
                                                 for taste and odour reduction 401
   MNF indication 22
                                                 for VOC removal 400
Leasing of waterworks 50
                                                 plant for production 453
Legionnaire's disease 241
Lime soda process for softening 371
Lime mixing plant 308                          PAC powdered activated carbon 402, 404
                                                  see also Granular activated carbon
Lugeon values of permeability 157
Lysimeter 74                                   Packed tower aerators 392
                                               Penman formula 74
                                               Percolation 119, 121
Magnesium 210
                                               Percussion drilling 134
Mains, see Pipelines and Pipes
                                               Permeability values of foundations 157
Manganese 210 see also Iron (and manganese)
                                               Pesticides 213
Membrane filtration 337-41
                                                  removal of 403-6
Meters and metering
                                               pH 215
  accuracy 19-21                               Phenols 215, 401,447
  domestic 19, 647                             Phosphates 216, 270
  electromagnetic 660                          Phytoplankton, see Algae
  inferential 647                              Pipelines 587 et seq.
  probeflow 659-60                                breakage rates 657
  testing of 3-5, 649-50                          cathodic protection 575
  ultrasonic 498                                  cleaning and relining 653
  Venturi and Dall 495-7                          design of 616
Micropollutants, see Organic micropollutants      laying 588-92
Microstrainers 272                                planning of 617, 623-6
Minimum night flow 22                             relining of 653
Mixing of chemicals 277-80                        repair times 501
Modelling, see Computer modelling                 submarine 594--5
Mussel growth 257                                 testing 579, 592
                                                  washouts 607
Nanofiltration 414                             Pipes 560 et seq.
National Rivers Authority 38                      asbestos cement 586
674   Index


Pipes continued                                  maximums 83
   cast iron 562                                  minimums 80
   concrete 583-6                                Thiessen measurement 72
   ductile iron 563-70                         Rainwater collection systems 109
   GRP 581-3                                   Ranney well collector 145
   mortar lining of 571-3                      Rapid gravity filters 317 et seq.
   polethylene 577-9                              anthracite media 331-3
   steel 566                                      backwashing and air scour 324
   PVC 580-1                                      declining flow 324
Plankton 268, 284                                 design of 318-22
Plumbosolvency 209-10, 411,645                    filtration rates 322
Polarite 382                                      operation of 317-8, 326-8
Poliomyelitis 244                                 sludge disposal 353-62
Pollution prevention UK 43, 44-6               Raw water storage 267
Polyaluminium chloride (PAC1) 313              Raw water classification 233
Polyelectrolyte coagulant aids 31 6-7          Recession curves 119
Polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) 216    Recharge of aquifers 144
Potassium 216                                  Redox potential 139, 236, 270
Potassium permanganate 379, 380, 381,382       Renal dialysis requirements 198
Powdered activated carbon (PAC) 402, 404       Reservoirs, see also Yield
Pressure control valves 601-2                     control curves 108
Pressure filters 328-31                           design floods 159
Private sector participation 49                   drawoff arrangements 169
Privatisation - of water in UK 37                 essential conditions 153
   effect on yields used 88                       flood routing 161-4
Probability                                       ICE Guide 160
   analysis of floods 85                          pumped storage 97
   choosing probability paper 91                  regulating 101
   dry weather flows 81-2, 90-1                   safety requirements 152, 167, 173-5
   estimation of minimum yield 95-101             sedimentation 188
   use of regional curves 85                      siltation 169
   yields 95-7                                    spillway design 166, 167
Protozoa, examination for 252                     thermal stratification 269
   diseases caused by 242-4                       watertightness 153
Pumping main design 618-20                     Reverse osmosis
Pumping plant 522 et seq.                         for desalination 414-20
   air lift 127-8                                 for fluoride reduction 388
   characteristics 522-31                         for nitrate reduction 394, 396-7
   efficiencies 551-2                          River flow modelling 89
   electric motor types 533-5                  River gauging 66
   for boosting 542-4                          River intakes 190-194
   instrumentation and control systems 554-8   Runoff, see also Floods; Yield
   performance monitoring 553                     cumulative minimum diagram 100
   start controls 537                             maximums 84
   suction arrangements 550                       minimum rates of 81
   water hammer 547-50
                                               Salmonella bacteria 241
Qanats 145                                     Salt taste limits 201, 219
                                               Sampling frequencies 233-5
Radioactivity 217                                 field analyses 236
Rainfall                                          techniques 235
  catchment measurement 71                     Scottish water organisation 46
   gauges 69-70                                Schistosomiasis (Bilharzia) 257
   losses from 73, 75                          Screening at intakes 271
                                                                                 Index   675


Screens for pump suctions 550                     for chemicals and materials used 239
Sedimentation, see also Clarification          Standpipe consumption 13, 14
    chemically assisted 277-80                 Streamflow, measurement 66
    plain 273-7                                   naturalisation 77
Service levels to consumers 615                Sulphate-reducing bacteria 254
Service pipes 642                              Sulphates 219
    copper 645                                 Suspended solids 219
    defect rate 657
    design 648-9                               Taste and odour 220
    lead 645                                      reduction methods 401-3
    polyethylene 647                           Testing boreholes and wells 127-31
    PVC 646                                    Testing pipelines 579, 592-4
    steel 645                                  Testing service reservoirs 517-9
Service reservoirs 499 et seq.                 Theis well yield equation 123
    designs 504-10                             Thermal stratification 269
    leakage rates 24, 517                      Thiessen average rainfall method 72
    pipework and valves 512-6                  Transmissivity of an aquifer 123
    pollution prevention 260, 503, 510         Treatment works layout 309-11
    safety requirements 511                    Trihalomethanes (THMs) 206, 435
    storagerequirement 499-502                 Turbidity 220, 431,435
    testing 517                                   after filtration 318-9
    typical depths 502                         Typhoid bacteria 240
Settling speeds 274-5
Sewage effluents
                                               UK drinking water regulations 222
    Royal Commission standards 200
Silica 218                                     Ultrasonic flow meters 498
Silver, use as disinfectant 218                Ultra-violet (UV) disinfection 455
Simazine 45, 214                               Unbalanced head on valves 587-8
Slow sand filters 342-9                        Unit hydrograph, see Hydrographs
    advantages/disadvantages 347-9             Uplift to gravity dams 178
    construction of 344-5                      Uplift to service reservoirs 511
    pre-treatment for 347                      Upward flow filters 335
Sludge disposal 355-62                         US water undertakings 47
Sodium 219                                     USEPA drinking water standards 221-32
    alginate 316                                  EPA role 47-9
    aluminate 313                              Valves- air 603-7
    chloride 219                                  butterfly 599
    hypochlorite for disinfection 449             chambers for 608
    sulphate 219                                  control valves 601-3
Softening 370 et seq.                             needle valves 603
    and cardiovascular diseases 370               non-return 600
    base exchange 376-8                           open/closed-end test 597
    by crystallisation 372-5                      sluice 596
    lime-soda process 371                      Velocity gradient
    pellet reactor (Spiractor process) 372-5      for chemical mixing 278
Software for hydrology 74, 108-9                  for flocculation 282
Soil moisture measurement 74-5                 Venturi meters 495-7
Solid waste disposal controls 46               Viruses- diseases caused by 244
Solids, total dissolved 206, 412                  examination for 253
Sounding for leaks 662                            kill rate by chlorine 432-5
Staffing levels of water undertakings 53          kill rate by ozone 450
Standards- bacterial 245-52                    Viscosity of water 470
    for drinking water 221 et seq.             Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
    for surface water classification 233          removal of 399-400
676   Index


Washouts on pipelines 607-8                 gravel packs for 132
Water Plcs in England & Wales 39            layouts of 146
  privatisation 37-43                       pumping plant for 148
Water biology 254                           screens 132
Water charges 53                            surging 136
Water hammer 417                            testing 127-31
Water quality                               verticality 135
  chemical issues 260-2                     yields 117-9, 122, 123, 128
  control priorities 237                  Worms (helminth) in water 459
  microbiological issues 262-3
  modelling 635
                                          Yield
  monitoring at treatment works 236
                                             computer models for 89, 108
  simple checks on 237
                                             control curves for 108
  source watch 238
                                             definitions of 87
Water sources, types of 63
                                             of catchwater 104
Water towers 519-20
Water undertakings staffing 53               of direct supply reservoirs 92-5
WC usage of water 6-9, 10                    of pumped storage scheme 97-9
WC cause of meter error 20                   of regulating reservoir 101-3
Weirs 66, 480, 490-3                         of river intake 89-91
  broad crested 491                          of surface sources 89-91, 92 et seq
  Crump 67, 492-3                            operational studies for 88, 106-8
  for stream gauging 66-9                    probability analyses of 91, 95
  sharp-edged 491                            standards for failure of 87
Wells and boreholes 127-9. 132-7, 146-8   Yield of groundwater sources, see Groundwater
  adits 118
  construction 132, 134                   Zinc in water 221
  drawdown 148                               removal 384
  geophysical investigation 131              dezincification of fittings 411
Plate 1
Gleno buttress dam, Italy, before and after failure on December 1923




                                   Failure of Baldwin Hills earth-
                                   embanked reservoir, Los Angeles, 14
                                   December 1963. Excess flow was
                                   noticed in underdrains at noon; silty
                                   water emerging from the toe was
                                   observed at 1.00 pm; a hole appeared
                                   in the upstream face at 2.30 pm. The
                                   first photo shows the breach at 3.30
                                   pm; the second, collapse of the crest
                                   road at 3.38 pm. Complete breaching
                                   followed at 3.40 pm. (Photo: Los
                                   Angeles Times)




                  Plate 5
Oros earth dam, Brazil, overtopped by flood during construction 25 March 1960. (Photo: Water &
Water Engineering)




The failed left abutment of the Malpasset concrete   Tarbela dam, Pakistan, showing erosion of
arch dam, France, 2 December 1959 showing the        concrete in the overflow tunnel, 1974,
crushed concrete due to, weakness and movement of    believed due to cavitation phenomenon.
the abutment. (Photo: Water Power)                   (Photo: A. Garrod)


                                           Plate 6
 Upper Neuadd 24 m high masonry faced concrete dam, South Wales, completed 1902. (Engineer:
 Dr. G. F, Deacon)




Profile of Upper Neuadd dam showing earth
 embankment support




                                                      Leakage through the masonry joints of the
                                                      Upper Neuadd dam, 1963, due to acid
                                                      moorland impounded water attacking the
                                                      lime constituent of the mortar


                                            Plate 7
Repairing the Lluest Wen 24 m high earth dam, South Wales, by insertion of a plastic concrete
diaphragm wall within the old puddle clay corewall, 1971. (Engineers: Binnie & Partners)


                                            Plate 8
          (Left) A large diameter sandstone core
          withdrawn from a 1.2 m diameter
          borehole drilled by the chilled shot
          method. (Contractors: George Stow &
          Co. Ltd., Slough, UK)




          (Below) Bailing out a percussion drilled
          borehole. (Contractors: George Stow &
          Co. Ltd., UK)




Plate 2
Puddled clay filling to a dam cutoff trench    A pugmill producing puddled clay




Taf Fechan reservoir, South Wales started 1913, completed 1925, showing drawoff tower and
bellmouth. (Engineers: Sir Alex Binnie, Son & Deacon)


                                              Plate 3
Tittesworth 33 m high earth dam of crushed sandstone under construction 1962, showing articulated
concrete corewall. (Engineers: Binnie & Partners)




Brianne 91 m high rockfill dam, South Wales, showing side spillway. Completed 1973. (Engineers:
Binnie & Partners)


                                             Plate 4
Illustration of wave spray overtopping the crest of a dam during storm conditions and wave
discharge to spillway. Loch Quoich dam of the North of Scotland Hydro-Electric Board. (Photos:
Richard Costain)




The 138 m high Mangla earth dam main spillway, Pakistan, under construction 1967, designed for
25 000 m3/s overflow rate. (Engineers: Binnie & Partners)


                                           Plate 9
Upper Silent Valley 38 m high concrete gravity dam, with precast concrete block facing, built for
Belfast 1957. (Engineers: Binnie & Partners)




Kalatuwawa masonry faced concrete dam, 21 m high, built for Colombo, Sri Lanka. Completed
1954. (Engineers: Binnie & Partners)


                                            Plate 10
The Waterfall 55 m high masonry faced concrete gravity dam of the Tai Lam Chung water scheme
for Hong Kong, completed 1957. (Engineers" Binnie & Partners)




Mudhiq concrete arch dam 73 m high, Saudi Arabia, 1980. (Engineers: Binnie & Partners)


                                          Plate 11
The 85 m high Gorge dam of the Shing Mun water scheme for Hong Kong, comprising a concrete
block diaphragm upstream, supported by a concrete thrust block and a downstream rockfill
embankment, completed 1936. (Engineers: Binnie & Partners)




The 116 m high concrete arch dam at Dokan, Iraq, completed in 1959. (Engineers: Binnie &
Partners)


                                          Plate 12
Plate 13
Alton reservoir formed by 24 m high earth dam, with 46 M1/day treatment works in foreground built
1987 for Anglian Water, UK. (Engineers: Binnie & Partners)




Layout of 82 M1/day treatment works at Simley, Islamabad, Pakistan, completed 1995. (Contractor:
Paterson Candy Ltd., Isleworth, UK. Photo courtesy Taisei Corporation)


                                            Plate 14
Lamella plate clarifier. (Purac Ltd., Kidderminster, UK)




One of the DAF (dissolved air flotation) units, capacity 20 M1/day, at the 450 M1/day Frankley
treatment works for Severn Trent Water, UK. (Engineers" Binnie & Partners)


                                            Plate 15
Interior view of a CoCo-DAFF (counter-current dissolved air flotation filtration) clarifier unit.
(Paterson Candy Ltd., Isleworth, UK)




A 140 M1/day flume for flow measurement and mixing of injected coagulation chemicals upstream in
the downstream hydraulic jump, Lartington treatment works, Northumbrian Water, UK


                                              Plate 16
A plenum floor for a rapid gravity filter under construction (see Fig. 7.14). Left shows dwarf walls
constructed for supporting pre-formed plastic formwork for the underside of the filter floor. On the
right, nozzle bushes (with sealing caps) are shown inserted into pre-formed holes in the floor
formwork with a matrix of rebar reinforcement in place. The floor is then concreted flush with the
sealing caps, and after curing, the sealing caps are removed and the nozzle stems and domes screwed
in to a uniform level. (Paterson Candy Ltd., Isleworth, UK)




                                                              A rapid gravity filter under combined
                                                              air and water backwash


                                             Plate 17
A typical portable test kit for carrying out comprehensive bacteriological and chemical analyses in
the field. The kit shown includes equipment for membrane filtration, two battery powered
incubators (permitting simultaneous faecal and total coliform analyses), meters for pH, conductivity,
and turbidity, together with a photometer and a range of tablet reagents for conducting some 40
chemical tests of water quality. (ELE International Ltd., Hemel Hempstead, UK)




                                                         The portable test kit assembled for
                                                         operation


                                              Plate 18
Sectional view of an ultrafiltration membrane cartridge containing about 10 000 fibres and with a
treatment capacity of 4-7 m3/h. The insert shows the cross-section of a hollow fibre membrane of
internal diameter 0.8 mm, magnification x 30. (Manufacturer: Koch International UK Ltd, Stafford,
UK)




A 65 M1/day membrane filtration plant installed year 2000 at Homesford, for Severn Trent Water.
(Engineers: Binnie, Black & Veatch)


                                           Plate 19
Slow sand filters, Lough Neagh scheme, Belfast water supply 1972. (Engineers: Binnie & Partners)




Sludge press of handling capacity 35 t/week dry solids at Frankley treatment works, Severn Trent
Water UK, 1993. (Engineers: Binnie & Partners. Manufacturers: Edwards & Jones, Stoke-on-Trent,
UK)


                                            Plate 20
Ion exchange denitrification plant, capacity 4.5 M1/day, with high lift pumps to the right, and
process pumps in the background, 1990. (Paterson Candy Ltd., Isleworth UK)




Orthophosphoric acid dosing plant for plumbo solvency control, Alton treatment works, Anglian
Water 1987. (Engineers: Binnie & Partners. Contractors: Degremont UK, Dunstable, UK)


                                             Plate 21
A 4-step cascade aerator (each fall 0.5 m) for 2.75 m3/s flow rate at Izmit treatment works, Turkey.
(Contractor: Paterson Candy Ltd. UK. Photo courtesy Thames Water, UK)




Inlet aerator disacharging 200 M1/day to                Packed tower aerator of capacity 8 M1/day.
Grafham Reservoir of Anglian Water, UK                  (Purac Ltd., Kidderminster, UK)


                                             Plate 22
A combined 150 M1/day five-stage seawater flash distillation plant with 608 MW output, Ras Abu
Fontas, Qatar, 1999. (Engineers: Mott MacDonald, Brighton UK. Contractors: Weir Westgarth and
ABB, UK)




                                                                   An 11 M1/day reverse
                                                                   osmosis desalination plant at
                                                                   Kill Devil Hills, North
                                                                   Carolina USA, 1989.
                                                                   (Engineers: Black & Veatch
                                                                   USA)


                                          Plate 23
A bank of wall-mounted chlorinators. (Manufacturers: Portacel, Winchester, UK)




A bank of triple validation monitors, comprising residual chlorine analysers, buffer solution
containers and indicators. (Manufacturers: Portacel, Winchester, UK)


                                             Plate 24
                                                Ozoniser with end cap opened, showing nest of
Self-contained packaged plant for               interior electrode tubes. (Manufacturers: Ozotech
electrolytic sodium hypochlorite generation.    Ltd, Burgess Hill, UK)
Output up to 2 kg/day chlorine.
(Manufacturers: USF Wallace & Tiernan,
Tonbridge, UK)




On-site hypochlorite generating plant at            A 20 kW ultra-violet disinfection plant treating
Heigham treatment works, Anglian Water              up to 40 M1/day of water. (Manufacturers:
UK. Output 320 kg/day chlorine                      Hanovia Limited, Slough, UK)


                                               Plate 25
     (Above left) A 2270 m 3 capacity concrete water
     tower used on Malaysian rural water supplies
     project, 1992. (Engineers: Syed Muhammad,
     Hooi dan Binnie)

     (Above right) A 95 m 3 capacity elevated
     concrete tank for the roof rainwater collection
     scheme for Male, Maldives, 1988. (Engineers:
     Binnie & Partners)




     (Left) A 1010 m 3 29 m high elevated concrete
     tank for a 1350 M1/day water supply in the
     Middle East 1989. (Engineers: Binnie &
     Partners)


Plate 26
                                              Single stage, split casing
                                              pumps. (Weir Pumps Ltd.,
                                              Glasgow, Scotland)




Cut away diagram of a five-stage
centrifugal pump. (Weir Pumps
Ltd., Glasgow, Scotland)




                                                 Two-stage split casing
                                                 pumpsets in a water
                                                 pumping station. (Weir
                                                 pumps Ltd., Glasgow,
                                                 Scotland)

                                   Plate 27
Plate 28
Laying 1.0 m diameter GRP pipeline, sand bedded and surrounded, within a 30 m easement. Part of
the 350 km North-South Carrier pipeline for Botswana, year 2000. (Engineers: Binnie, Black &
Veatch)




Cross-connection on a twin ductile iron 40 km pipeline in Middle East, 1989. At each cross-
connection pipe diameters are reversed from 2300 mm to 2100 mm to permit nesting of pipes for
delivery from Japan. (Engineers: Binnie & Partners. Contractors: Continental Construction, India)


                                            Plate 29
                                                    (Left) A 'needle' or 'streamline' cone valve,
                                                    frequently used for flow control




                                                        A pipe cutting machine. The driving shaft
                                                        on the right can be rotated by a
A metal seated, hand operated 840 mm diameter
                                                        compressed air operated motor. (Pipeline
butterfly valve. (Biwater Industries Ltd.,              Technology Ltd., Fareham, UK)
Dorking, UK)




            Making an under-pressure connection on an existing main. A valved split
            collar is clamped onto the main; the valve is opened for the drilling
            machine to trepan a hole in the side of the main; and the trepanned
            section is withdrawn and the valve closed. (Aqua-Gas (Valves & Fittings)
            Ltd., Northampton, UK)


                                            Plate 30
                                          Semi-positive rotary piston meter,
                                          Kent KVM, Class C or D for 15 mm
                                          or 20 mm supply pipe.
                                          (Manufacturers: ABB Kent Meters,
                                          Luton, UK)



                                                                   Sequence of
                                                                   operation of semi-
                                                                   positive rotary
                                                                   piston meter



Manufacturer's data             Class C              Class D
                   Size         15 mm     20 mm       15 mm                20 mm
Qmax               m3/h          3.0       5.0         2.0/3.0              5.0
Qt 4- 2%           1/h          22.5      37.5        11.5/17.25           28.75
Qmin 4- 5%         1/h          15.0      25.0         7.5/11.25           18.75
Starting flow      1/h           5.7       9.5         3.75/5.63            9.4




Single jet meter, 15 or 20 mm                                       Multi jet meter, 15 to 50 mm

                                          Inferential meters Class B or C




                                                              Inferential (Woltman type) vane meter
                                                              used for measuring large flows. Class B or
                                                              C, 50 to 300 m


                                                 Plate 31
(Left) Mercol pipe cleaning equipment and (right) epoxy resin lining machine. (Mercol Products
Ltd., Bolsover, Chesterfield, UK)




                                                              Relining 150 mm (6 inch) diameter
                                                              cast iron main with 160 mm MDPE
                                                              coiled pipe using the pipe bursting
                                                              method


                                            Plate 32
One of two 660 mm casings thrust bored below river, to house 450 mm flanged ductile iron pipes for
Yorkshire Water, UK. (Allen Watson Limited, Horsham, UK)




                                                                 A 750 mm diameter auger bore
                                                                 under railway for a new 450 mm
                                                                 diameter pumping main for
                                                                 Sutton and E. Surrey Water plc.
                                                                 (Allen Watson Limited,
                                                                 Horsham, UK)


                                            Plate 33
      AquaMaster electromagnetic water meter,
      15-600mm size. Accuracy + 0.25% at
      flows above 5% of nominal flow rating
      Qn. (Manufacturers: ABB
      Instrumentation Ltd., Stonehouse, Glos.,
      UK)




                                                  For district metering an
                                                  AquaMaster can be buried
                                                  directly in the ground with the
                                                  electronics housed in a street
                                                  bollard as illustrated above




                         SpectraCense continuous on-line water quality
                         monitoring apparatus for measuring, recording, and
                         transmitting- pH, conductivity, dissolved oxygen,
                         chlorine or free residual chlorine, turbidity and colour.
                         (Manufacturers: Biwater SpectraScan, Waterlooville,
                         Hants, UK)




                                                      Quadrina turbine insertion
                                                      flow meter.
                                                      (Manufacturers: Quadrina
                                                      Limited, Letchworth, UK)




Aquaprobe electromagnetic
probe flow meter.
(Manufacturers: ABB
Instrumentation Ltd.,
Stonehouse, Glos., UK)


                            Plate 34
