TECHNICAL BRIEF
                                                                                                    WHO/FWC/WSH/15.03




                  MANAGEMENT OF CYANOBACTERIA
                  IN DRINKING-WATER SUPPLIES:
                  Information for regulators and water
                  suppliers
This technical brief provides general information on the management of cyanobacteria in drinking-water supplies to help regulators
and water suppliers determine when to take action and what actions to take. It describes a number of measures to prevent the
formation of cyanobacterial blooms as well as options to manage such blooms when they occur. Although some of the measures
are specific to cyanobacteria, many are equally useful for the management of other hazards. Risks from cyanobacteria should be
assessed along with the other microbial, chemical, physical and radiological hazards that may be encountered in a water supply.
This can be effectively achieved in the context of developing a water safety plan for the water supply system.



What are cyanobacteria?
Cyanobacteria, also known as blue-green algae, are photosynthetic bacteria naturally present in surface waters in low or moderate
numbers; very high numbers are usually caused by human activity enriching the water with phosphorus and nitrogen. Some
cyanobacteria produce toxins, called cyanotoxins. Cyanobacteria can occur as single cells or in groups, as colonies or filaments. They
can be found in fresh, marine and brackish waters. Frequently occurring genera in surface waters include Anabaena, Aphanizomenon,
Cylindrospermopsis, Lyngbya, Microcystis, Oscillatoria, Phormidium and Planktothrix.

Some cyanobacteria can control their buoyancy and seek water depths with optimal growth conditions. This ability to move within
the water column gives cyanobacteria an advantage over other microorganisms that compete for nutrients and light. Buoyant
cyanobacteria, such as Anabaena and Microcystis, may float upward when mixing is weak and accumulate in dense surface blooms
(Fig. 1). Other cyanobacteria, such as Cylindrospermopsis and Planktothrix, stay dispersed, but can reach very high cell densities,
causing high turbidity. Still others, such as Lyngbya, Oscillatoria and Phormidium, grow as benthic populations on sediments or
attached to other surfaces, such as piers or submersed rocks (for details, refer to Ministry for the Environment & Ministry of Health,
New Zealand, 2009).



Figure 1. Cyanobacterial bloom (left); Microcystis sp. (middle; magnified 200-fold); Anabaena sp. (right; magnified 400-fold)




http://www.who.int//water_sanitation_health/publications/2011/dwq_guidelines/en/
                                                                           How can cyanobacteria affect drinking-water supplies and human
                                                                           health?
                                                                           Production of toxins

                                                                           General information
                                                                           Cyanobacteria produce a wide range of bioactive substances, some of which are still unknown. A number are toxic to humans –
                                                                           the cyanotoxins – and they have different modes of toxicity. Some cyanotoxins are chiefly contained within the cyanobacterial cell
                                                                           (intracellular cyanotoxins), whereas others are released from the cell into the surrounding water (extracellular cyanotoxins). When
                                                                           the cyanobacteria die, the intracellular cyanotoxins can also be released; this may occur during certain water treatment processes.

                                                                           Most surface bloom–forming cyanobacterial species can produce toxins; however, not all bloom-forming cyanobacteria are toxic.
                                                                           As a precaution, cyanobacterial blooms should be considered toxic, as evidence shows that up to 75% of blooms are toxic (Chen,
                                                                           Burke & Prepas, 2011). Each type of cyanotoxin can be produced by different genera of cyanobacteria; microcystins, for example, are
                                                                           produced by Microcystis and Planktothrix, whereas cylindrospermopsin comes from Cylindrospermopsis and Anabaena. In addition,
                                                                           each genus of cyanobacteria can produce more than one cyanotoxin; Anabaena species, for example, produce cylindrospermopsin
                                                                           and anatoxins.

                                                                           Bottom-dwelling (benthic) cyanobacteria, such as the genera Lyngbya, Oscillatoria and Phormidium, also produce cyanotoxins and
                                                                           therefore may be hazardous if they detach and rise to the surface or disperse in the water.

                                                                           Potential health effects
                                                                           Cyanotoxins can have a variety of effects on human health. Acute symptoms range from gastroenteritis, fever and irritation of the
                                                                           skin, eyes, throat and respiratory tract to liver damage and neurotoxicity. Chronic long-term effects include tumour promotion
                                                                           (International Agency for Research on Cancer, 2010). Cyanobacteria do not multiply in the human body and so are not infectious
                                                                           (Chorus & Bartram, 1999).

                                                                           In an incident in Brazil, more than 50 people died when water contaminated by cyanotoxins (microcystins and probably also
                                                                           cylindrospermopsin) was used for dialysis after insufficient treatment (Jochimsen et al., 1998). Drinking-water should not be used
                                                                           for dialysis without treatment specific for this purpose.


                                                                           Production of off-flavours and odours

                                                                           General information
MANAGEMENT OF CYANOBACTERIA IN DRINKING-WATER SUPPLIES • TECHNICAL BRIEF




                                                                           Some genera of cyanobacteria, such as Anabaena, Phormidium and Planktothrix, produce compounds with unpleasant odours
                                                                           and tastes (“off-flavours”). The two most common compounds are geosmin and 2-methylisoborneol. They impart a musty-earthy
                                                                           odour to drinking-water, which, although unpleasant, is harmless. Although other microorganisms, such as actinomycetes, also
                                                                           produce geosmin and 2-methylisoborneol, cyanobacteria are considered the major source of these compounds in surface waters.
                                                                           Their occurrence can be a sign that toxic cyanobacteria are present. Usually, however, the occurrence of cyanotoxins is not related
                                                                           to taste and odour. Tastes and odours are therefore not reliable signs of a toxin-producing bloom.

                                                                           Customer complaints and undermining consumer confidence
                                                                           Taste- and odour-causing compounds can be detected at very low concentrations in water (e.g. a few nanograms per litre), much
                                                                           lower than the concentrations of cyanotoxins that are associated with adverse health effects. These tastes and odours can lead to
                                                                           customer complaints or result in consumers using an aesthetically more acceptable, but potentially less safe, drinking-water source.




             2
Where are cyanobacteria likely to be found, and what causes their
growth?
Environmental conditions that favour cyanobacterial growth

Cyanobacterial blooms occur in fresh water in nearly all parts of the world. Environmental conditions that favour cyanobacterial
growth tend to occur in late summer and autumn in temperate zones and potentially year-round in productive tropical and
subtropical zones. These conditions include:

       • high concentrations of nutrients, particularly phosphorus (> 25–50 µg total phosphorus per litre1),
       • high water temperature (> 25 °C),
       • long hydraulic retention time (> 1 month), and
       • stable water body stratification (for some cyanobacteria).

Because of these characteristics, planktonic cyanobacteria (those living in the water column) tend to occur more often in reservoirs,
dams, lakes, ponds and slow-moving rivers. Benthic cyanobacteria are found on the bottom or in shallow zones of water bodies
and tend to stay localized to the area of growth.

If the planktonic or benthic cyanobacteria are disturbed or their mats become detached, their toxins may be released and disperse
in the vicinity. Other factors, such as light intensity and wind, affect the growth and accumulation of cyanobacterial blooms. In
temperate climates, some filamentous, usually toxic cyanobacteria may produce blooms at the interface between the warm surface
water layer and the cold deep layer (e.g. Planktothrix rubescens), whereas others may produce high biomass concentrations year-
round in well-mixed shallow lakes (e.g. Planktothrix agardhii).


Direct and indirect effects of increases in water temperature

Warming of surface water can provide a competitive advantage for cyanobacteria. In temperate regions with seasonal phytoplankton
succession, higher winter and spring temperatures may promote the growth of cyanobacteria over that of diatoms, which usually
dominate in spring when water bodies are well mixed. Moreover, increased water temperatures further intensify water stratification
and lengthen the duration of stratification periods, thus increasing not only the magnitude of the blooms, but also their duration.


Effects of change in patterns of precipitation and storms

Climate change can affect cyanobacterial growth through impacts on both water temperature and precipitation events. Intense
rainfall can increase nutrient discharge into water bodies, thus promoting bloom formation, but it may also prevent blooms by
increased flushing and mixing. Where water retention time increases as a result of drought, nutrient loads may rise, thus potentially
promoting blooms; in contrast, drought may reduce nutrient levels due to reduced influx of water carrying fertilizers. Intense
snowfall leading to large spring melt and flooding may also affect cyanobacterial occurrence. Storm events affect water body
mixing, with more frequent alternation between stable stratification and mixing interrupting bloom development (see Paerl &
Huisman, 2008; Newcombe et al., 2012).


Occurrence of cyanobacteria in source water

During the last decades, cyanobacterial abundance has increased in many surface waters around the world as a result of various
factors, such as increased nutrient concentrations (“eutrophication”). Cylindrospermopsis raciborskii has substantially expanded its
geographical range: it was initially identified exclusively in tropical and subtropical latitudes, but its prevalence in temperate regions
– including northern Europe, southern Australia, New Zealand, the northern United States and southern Canada – has increased
over the past two decades. Nonetheless, in most of these regions, other cyanobacteria, particularly Microcystis and Planktothrix,
remain the most frequent causes of heavy blooms.




1
    Note that this is referring to total phosphorus, not to phosphorus dissolved in the water. Detection of dissolved phosphorus at concentrations above 5 µg/L implies excess availability
    and high bloom potential.

                                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                           Water bodies that are influenced by discharges of municipal wastewater or subsurface infiltration of groundwater influenced by
                                                                           septic systems are known to carry nutrients at elevated levels that are capable of increasing cyanobacterial growth. These impacts
                                                                           are exacerbated by wastewater treatment systems with poor nutrient removal capacity. Drought conditions can also increase the
                                                                           likelihood of cyanobacterial blooms where wastewater loading remains constant. Runoff from animal feedlots and from fields
                                                                           containing mineral fertilizer or manure can introduce similarly high nutrient loads; in regions with effective phosphorus removal in
                                                                           wastewater treatment but intensive agriculture, the latter tends to be the main cause of eutrophication (see also Merel et al., 2013).



                                                                           How can the risk associated with cyanobacteria in the water supply be
                                                                           assessed and effectively managed?
                                                                           The most effective means of consistently ensuring the safety of a drinking-water supply is through the use of a comprehensive risk
                                                                           assessment and risk management approach that encompasses all steps in the water supply, from catchment to consumer. For this
                                                                           purpose, the World Health Organization (WHO) recommends the development of water safety plans (Davison et al., 2005; WHO, 2011).

                                                                           Water safety plan development draws on the principles and concepts of both a multiple-barrier approach and the hazard assessment
                                                                           and critical control points approach. The primary objective of a water safety plan is ensuring good drinking-water supply through
                                                                           the identification of risks from hazards and hazardous events, the prevention or minimization of contamination of source waters, the
                                                                           reduction or removal of contamination through treatment processes and the prevention of recontamination in the distribution system.

                                                                           An example of a flow chart to guide water suppliers in determining when to take action to manage cyanobacteria and what actions
                                                                           to perform is provided in Fig. 2 (see also Chorus & Bartram, 1999; Health Canada, 2002; Newcombe, 2012).


                                                                           Figure 2. Example flow chart of the management of cyanobacteria in water


                                                                                                                                                               Water sources
                                                                                               Actions                                                  Assessment of potential for blooms from
                                                                                                                                                       nutrients and previous water body history
                                                                                                   Application of preventing and
                                                                                                                                                                  Visual monitoring
                                                                                                      controlling techniques
                                                                                                                                      Confirmation
                                                                                                                                                                 Field tests (optional)
                                                                                                                                        of effects
                                                                                                                                                                                When toxin production is
                                                                                                                                                                                suspected or routine testing
                                                                                                                                                                Identification (testing)
                                                                                                Consultation and decision-making                            Cyanobacteria and cyanotoxins
                                                                                                     with other authorities
MANAGEMENT OF CYANOBACTERIA IN DRINKING-WATER SUPPLIES • TECHNICAL BRIEF




                                                                                                   Notify several authorities that                     Source and/or raw water
                                                                                                  utilize water in the same source
                                                                                                                                                                  Report to regional
                                                                                                                                        Many cells                  health and/or                  Few cells or
                                                                                                                                       or high toxin               environmental                    low toxin
                                                                                   Optional                                                                           agencies

                                                                                       Resampling and reanalysis


                                                                                                                                     Treated water                                        Confirmation of
                                                                                                                                                                                          effects of treatment
                                                                                                                                      Report to regional                                  adjustment
                                                                                                                                        health and/or
                                                                                                            High toxin                                               Low toxin
                                                                                                                                       environmental
                                                                                                                                          agencies

                                                                                                  Notify community and agencies
                                                                                                                                                                     Actions
                                                                                                                                                                            Treatment adjustment or
                                                                                                Consultation and decision-making
                                                                                                                                                                               alternative supply


                                                                                  Source: Adapted from Health Canada (2002).
             4
Assessing the potential of water sources to support cyanobacterial blooms

Understanding the conditions that promote the growth of cyanobacteria in water bodies is useful for predicting whether
cyanobacterial problems are likely to occur. A fundamental basis for cyanobacterial growth is the concentration of total phosphorus,
as the total amount of phosphorus in the system limits the total amount of biomass that can occur. Water temperature is also an
important factor for assessing the potential for cyanobacterial growth, as shown in Table 1. Data on additional factors, such as
chlorophyll a, thermal stratification, local weather conditions influencing stratification and concentrations of nitrogen, can improve
the assessment.

Table 1. Example assessment of the potential for high biomass of cyanobacteria based on environmental conditionsa

                                                                                                  Potential for high biomass of cyanobacteria
                                                                                  Very low                          (blooms)                           Very high
    Indicator


    Total phosphorus (µg/L)                                                         < 10           10–25               > 25–50           > 50–100        > 100
                                                                                River with visible
    Water residence time                                                                                          < 1 month                      ≥ 1 month
                                                                                     current
    pH                                                                             < 5–6           > 6–7                                   >7
    Secchi disc transparencyb during season typical for cyanobacteria               ≥2m              < 2–1 m                 < 1–0.5 m               < 0.5 m
    Temperature (°C)                                                                 < 10           10 – < 15         15 – < 20          20 – < 25       ≥ 25
a
 The higher the number of these conditions that are fulfilled, the higher the potential for high biomass of cyanobacteria.
b
 Determined as the depth at which a white disc of 20 cm diameter lowered into the water is no longer visible.
Source: Adapted from Umweltbundesamt (2014).


Monitoring and testing in water sources

Several-year data sets on the occurrence of cyanobacteria are valuable for cyanobacterial risk assessment and management. In
many water bodies, cyanobacteria occur with quite regular annual patterns. Once these patterns are understood, monitoring can
be specifically targeted to critical time periods. Monitoring cyanobacteria also provides information for tracking the development of
cyanobacterial blooms as well as for early warning for water source management and drinking-water treatment plants. Monitoring
is most effectively based on surveillance of source water for evidence of cyanobacterial bloom–forming potential, such as the
concentration of total phosphorus. Effective monitoring is useful for improving the identification of water bodies at risk of blooms,
particularly as, in many cases, data from a single point in time (e.g. spring overturn or end of dry season) serve to characterize
bloom potential. On-site visual assessment of water body turbidity and scouting for surface blooms are effective, low-cost, direct
methods that can trigger increased vigilance where such events occur.


Monitoring of cyanobacteria, cyanotoxins and taste- and odour-causing compounds
Timing, frequency and depth of sampling are best adapted to the (sometimes rapid) variation of cyanobacterial densities between
locations within the water body. Densities are influenced by local factors, such as changes in wind direction. The appropriate
frequency of sampling will be influenced by a number of factors, including the cost of monitoring, the season, the growth rate of
the cyanobacteria and methods employed in preventing and controlling cyanobacteria.

Chlorophyll a is a good indicator for overall phytoplankton biomass, and monitoring chlorophyll a is a direct way to provide a semi-
quantitative estimate of cyanobacterial biomass, particularly if performed in combination with a brief check in the microscope
as to whether it chiefly originates from cyanobacteria (Chorus & Bartram, 1999; Health Canada, 2002; Newcombe et al., 2010;
Newcombe, 2012).

To determine whether cyanobacteria are present in source waters and how concentrated they are, direct visual inspection for
discoloration or surface scums of cyanobacteria in water sources is an effective first check. A typical colour of bloom is green with
an olive hue; however, the colours can range from grey or tan to blue-green or reddish; during short periods of lysis, the bloom may
also be bright turquoise or blue. If cyanobacteria are suspected, species identification and cell count by microscopic observation
are recommended. It is not difficult to identify cyanobacteria at the genus level for staff with some experience in microscopy, and
this can be sufficient to detect a potential cyanotoxin hazard, particularly from the genera Anabaena, Aphanizomenon, Microcystis
and Planktothrix.



                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                           Field test kits can be useful for screening for specific cyanotoxins; however, more sophisticated laboratory testing should be
                                                                           considered to confirm the identification of the toxins and their concentrations. The absence of one cyanotoxin does not guarantee
                                                                           the absence of all cyanotoxins. Testing for cyanotoxins in the treated drinking-water is useful to validate and optimize the efficacy
                                                                           of treatment processes (Chorus & Bartram, 1999; Japan Water Works Association, 2000; Nicholson & Burch, 2001; American Water
                                                                           Works Association, 2004; Newcombe, 2012).

                                                                           The presence of geosmin and 2-methylisoborneol can be recognized by the musty smell of the water. Analytical confirmation
                                                                           and quantification require specific equipment and skills that often are not routinely present in water utilities (see also Jüttner &
                                                                           Watson, 2007).



                                                                           How can cyanobacterial growth in water sources be prevented or
                                                                           controlled?
                                                                           There are a number of approaches and techniques to prevent or control the growth of cyanobacteria in water sources. Preventive
                                                                           programmes to manage cyanobacteria in water should be developed in coordination with those agencies with the responsibility
                                                                           for managing water resources, including environmental, agricultural and health authorities. The appropriate technique will depend
                                                                           on a number of factors, including local environmental conditions, cost of the technique, target periods, ecological condition of the
                                                                           respective water source and effects on other water uses (e.g. agricultural and recreational uses) (National Rivers Authority, 1990;
                                                                           Chorus & Bartram, 1999; Newcombe, 2012; Water Research Foundation, 2012).


                                                                           Nutrient level control

                                                                           Control of the levels of nutrients – specifically phosphorus, which is usually critical in promoting bloom growth and formation – is
                                                                           a key factor for sustainable long-term management of cyanobacterial growth in drinking-water sources. Nutrient control can be
                                                                           achieved through good watershed management practices, such as limiting the input of nutrients from wastewater effluent and
                                                                           agricultural runoff (including minimizing use of fertilizers in the catchment) and controlling erosion through improved techniques
                                                                           of ploughing and by maintaining a densely vegetated buffer strip a few metres wide around the water body and its tributaries.


                                                                           Artificial mixing/aerating of source waters

                                                                           Artificial mixing/aerating is an intermediate-term or long-term technique to manage the growth of scum-forming cyanobacteria,
                                                                           such as the genera Anabaena and Microcystis, in water sources with stable thermal stratification, present in many reservoirs. Mixing
                                                                           the water column can disrupt thermal stratification at least partially and thus inhibit the movement of cyanobacteria through the
                                                                           water column into optimal light conditions. However, it requires a sufficiently deep water body, energy, sophisticated equipment,
                                                                           excellent planning, monitoring of the impact and adjustment of the mixing regime. Thus, it may be uneconomical. In addition,
MANAGEMENT OF CYANOBACTERIA IN DRINKING-WATER SUPPLIES • TECHNICAL BRIEF




                                                                           once aeration ceases, blooms can return. In addition, mixing can cause other cyanobacteria – adapted to mixing – to replace the
                                                                           previously prevalent species.


                                                                           Use of algicides and agents to precipitate cyanobacteria

                                                                           The use of algicides to kill cyanobacteria is a technique for the short-term management of cyanobacterial growth in reservoirs
                                                                           (not in rivers). It can be useful at the beginning of bloom development. The most common algicide is copper sulfate; however,
                                                                           alternative algicides, such as copper chelates and hydrogen peroxide, have been applied. As some cyanotoxins and taste- and
                                                                           odour-causing compounds are intracellular, algicide application causing the sudden death of many cells can result in substantial
                                                                           release of cyanotoxins. Although drinking-water treatment would have removed the cells with the toxins, dissolved cyanotoxins are
                                                                           more likely to break through. Therefore, algicides are best applied while cell numbers are still low, to avoid the release of significant
                                                                           concentrations of intracellular toxins and taste- and odour-causing compounds.

                                                                           Algicides may be used at higher cell numbers only if the reservoir can be taken out of supply until the toxins or taste- and odour-
                                                                           causing compounds degrade or if treatment for their removal is available. In addition, algicide use requires monitoring to minimize
                                                                           impacts on the agricultural use of water and on ecosystems, as well as precaution to ensure that algicides are not released into water
                                                                           sources, which may result in other health impacts or downstream environmental impacts. Operators must follow manufacturers’
                                                                           instructions when they use algicides.

                                                                           Alum and gypsum work differently, precipitating rather than quickly killing the cells, and precipitating phosphorus as well. These
                                                                           may be feasible options where costs need to be kept low, as in the case of small water utilities.


             6
Other options

Other techniques, such as decreasing the hydraulic retention time of reservoirs, maintaining flow in regulated rivers and
biomanipulation (i.e. managing ecosystem components that compete with cyanobacteria, such as submersed aquatic plants),
are also useful in some cases. Their success depends on excellent planning, monitoring and maintenance, based on an in-depth
understanding of the ecosystem (National Rivers Authority, 1990; Newcombe, 2012).



How can intake of cyanobacteria be avoided? How can cyanobacteria,
cyanotoxins and taste- and odour-causing compounds be removed
through drinking-water treatment?
If significant amounts of cyanobacterial cells, cyanotoxins and taste- and odour-causing compounds are present in water sources
and if prevention and control strategies cannot be implemented sufficiently quickly, a number of methods are available to prevent
exposure to cyanotoxins or taste- and odour-causing compounds. For microcystins, the most effective control is the removal of
the intact cells, as any cell damage in the drinking-water treatment plant may lead to toxin release and an increase in dissolved
toxin entering the distribution system. For other cyanotoxins, this would be only partially effective, as higher proportions of the
toxins occur dissolved in the water.

The appropriate technique will depend on a number of factors, including the hydrogeological situation, current treatment processes,
cost of the technique and types of cyanobacteria, cyanotoxins and taste- and odour-causing compounds, as well as further microbial,
chemical and physical hazards in the water supply that also require removal by treatment (Chorus & Bartram, 1999; Water Research
Foundation, 2010; Newcombe, 2012; Odel, 2012).

A brief description of the treatment methods for cyanobacteria, cyanotoxins and taste- and odour-causing compounds follows.
The treatment performance for cyanobacterial cells, intracellular/extracellular cyanotoxins, geosmin and 2-methylisoborneol is
summarized in Table 2.

Table 2. Treatment performance for cyanobacterial cells, intracellular/extracellular cyanotoxins, geosmin and
2-methylisoborneol
                                                                            Cyanobacterial
                                                                          cells, intracellular
                                                                             cyanotoxins,                                            Extracellular
                                                                             geosmin and              Extracellular (free)        (free) geosmin and
 Treatment processes                                                      2-methylisoborneol              cyanotoxins             2-methylisoborneol
 Coagulation/sedimentation                                                          +                           –                         –
 Riverbank and slow sand filtration                                                 +                           +                         +
 Membrane filtration                                                                +                          –a                         –a
 Dissolved air flotation                                                            +                           –                         –
 Activated carbon                                                                   –                           +                         +
 Ozonationb                                                                         –                           +                         +
 Chlorination (free chlorine)c                                                      –                           +                         –
 Chloramination and chlorine dioxide                                                –                           –                         –
 Preoxidation                                                                       –                           –                         –
+: 80% or more removal, although it depends on treatment conditions and types of cyanobacteria and toxins; –: not so effective.
a
  Depends on pore size of membranes. Nanofiltration is effective.
b
  Ozonation may release cyanotoxins and is not effective for saxitoxins.
c
  Chlorination may release cyanotoxins and is not effective for anatoxin-a.



Water abstraction at variable depths or sites

As concentrations of cyanobacteria can occur on the surface or at depth, variable abstraction depths may be useful for decreasing
cyanobacterial cells and their toxins in the raw water for drinking-water production. Where scums tend to accumulate at a specific
shoreline of the water body owing to a prevailing wind, choosing the off-take site away from this area can be useful. If cells
accumulate at varying sites of a reservoir (e.g. in different bays, depending on the wind direction), it may also be useful to shift
abstraction sites, if technically feasible.



                                                                                                                                                       7
                                                                           Water abstraction through bank filtration or slow sand filtration

                                                                           Slow sand filtration and riverbank filtration are effective not only for cyanobacterial cells, but also for extracellular cyanotoxins,
                                                                           geosmin and 2-methylisoborneol, as these undergo biodegradation during such processes. For slow sand filters, frequent scraping
                                                                           of surface layer or backwashing may be necessary if filter media clog rapidly due to the high load of organic matter. If sand filter
                                                                           clogging occurs frequently, it is effective to couple the sand with anthracite, whose diameter is larger than that of sand. Efficacy
                                                                           may be reduced if the water temperature is low or the filtration rate is high. These methods are not costly and are fairly easy to
                                                                           apply, even where resources are limited. Abstraction through riverbank filtration is possible where the underground is not rocky
                                                                           but consists of sufficiently permeable sediment.


                                                                           Water treatment to remove cyanobacterial cells and intracellular cyanotoxins, geosmin and
                                                                           2-methylisoborneol

                                                                           Dissolved air flotation is effective particularly for light cells and species containing gas vesicles, which typically form surface scums.
                                                                           Waters of high colour and low turbidity are best suited for flotation processes.

                                                                           Coagulation/sedimentation/filtration is effective to remove many species of cyanobacteria and cell-bound cyanotoxins, particularly
                                                                           microcystins, and taste- and odour-causing compounds, depending on pH, coagulant type and dose. It is ineffective in removing
                                                                           cyanotoxins that largely occur extracellularly and thus may be present even after the producing cyanobacteria have disappeared
                                                                           from the water body. Sediments (sludge) should be rapidly removed from the treatment system (e.g. from the clarifier) to avoid the
                                                                           release of cyanotoxins and taste- and odour-causing compounds. Backwashing should be done frequently to reduce the release of
                                                                           dissolved toxins to the filtered water. Post-coagulation (i.e. the addition of coagulants after sedimentation) is effective for some small
                                                                           and light cyanobacteria – such as Synechococcus spp. – that may be difficult to remove using normal coagulation/sedimentation and
                                                                           that increase the turbidity and colour of treated water. Preoxidation (chlorination or ozonation before coagulation/sedimentation/
                                                                           filtration) also increases the coagulation performance; however, it carries a risk of cyanobacterial cell disruption and release of
                                                                           cyanotoxins or taste- and odour-causing compounds. Validation of performance should include toxin analysis, particularly in
                                                                           situations where high cell densities reach the treatment system, and post-treatment for the removal of extracellular cyanotoxins
                                                                           and taste- and odour-causing compounds may need to be augmented with preoxidation. A further limitation to the application
                                                                           of preoxidation is that it can increase the production of disinfection by-products, particularly considering the high load of organic
                                                                           material introduced by a bloom.

                                                                           Membrane filtration (microfiltration, ultrafiltration, nanofiltration and reverse osmosis) is effective for removing cyanobacterial cells.
                                                                           Its efficiency depends on the pore size of the membranes – usually less than 1 µm – and on the membrane materials. Frequent
                                                                           backwashing and removal of backwash water from the plant are recommended for avoiding the release of cyanotoxins and taste-
                                                                           and odour-causing compounds. Pretreatment of the raw water is also recommended to prevent fouling and optimize membrane
                                                                           performance.
MANAGEMENT OF CYANOBACTERIA IN DRINKING-WATER SUPPLIES • TECHNICAL BRIEF




                                                                           Removal of extracellular (free) cyanotoxins
                                                                           Powdered activated carbon and granular activated carbon are very effective, depending on the carbon dose, the type of carbon
                                                                           (wood-based powdered activated carbon for microcystin and cylindrospermopsin) and contact time (> 30 minutes recommended);
                                                                           however, they are expensive. Coupling peroxidation with activated carbon is an effective way to remove both cyanotoxins and
                                                                           their potential transformation products. Moreover, the carbon must be regenerated or replaced at routine intervals, often based
                                                                           on the breakthrough of total organic carbon; however, toxin breakthrough may occur before significant total organic carbon
                                                                           breakthrough is detected.

                                                                           Chlorination can be effective against many cyanotoxins (with the exception of anatoxin-a) in water where the pH is not very
                                                                           high (< 8), the free chlorine concentration is sufficiently high (> 0.5 mg/L residual) and the contact time is sufficiently long
                                                                           (> 30 minutes). Chloramine and chlorine dioxide are not effective. Chlorination can be followed by activated carbon treatment to
                                                                           remove chlorination by-products (for further information, see Newcombe, 2012).

                                                                           Preoxidation with other oxidants, such as potassium permanganate, can be effective against microcystins and anatoxin-a, but
                                                                           limited or no data are available for other cyanotoxins.

                                                                           Ozonation may very effectively degrade cyanobacteria, depending on characteristics of the raw water, such as the concentration of
                                                                           natural organic matter and pH (> 7). Ozonation can be followed by activated carbon treatment to remove ozonation by-products.



             8
Other options include advanced oxidation processes, ultraviolet irradiation with hydrogen peroxide, but only at impractically high
doses or in the presence of a catalyst (e.g. titanium), and nanofiltration/reverse osmosis, which are effective, but generally expensive.


Removal of extracellular (free) geosmin and 2-methylisoborneol

Powered activated carbon and granular activated carbon are very effective, depending on the dose and type of activated carbon
(wood, coal and coconut-based carbons) and contact time (> 30 minutes recommended); however, they are expensive. Geosmin
can be more easily removed (adsorbed) than 2-methylisoborneol. Coupling of activated carbon with preoxidation may be effective
to remove extracellular geosmin and 2-methylisoborneol.

Ozonation is very effective and best followed by activated carbon treatment to remove ozonation by-products. Compared with
2-methylisoborneol, geosmin is much more effectively oxidized by ozone; therefore, some utilities may consider the addition of
hydrogen peroxide to increase the reaction kinetics in order to remove 2-methylisoborneol.



What are the important issues in treating drinking-water containing
cyanobacteria?
Inhibition of coagulation

Some cyanobacteria, such as the genus Microcystis, produce coagulation inhibitor proteins, which cause a decrease in removal
efficiencies of particulates and dissolved organic matter, such as disinfection by-product precursors, in the coagulation/
sedimentation processes.


Filter clogging and breakthrough

Larger-sized cyanobacteria can clog filters when present in high numbers, increasing the need for washing or exchanging filters
and potentially leading to the release of cyanotoxins and taste- and odour-causing compounds from trapped cyanobacterial cells
due to cell damage. Small cyanobacteria, such as Synechococcus, and filamentous cyanobacteria, such as Aphanizomenon and
Planktothrix, may be poorly retained on filters and can visibly break through or increase turbidity and colour in treated water when
present in high numbers.


Interference with disinfection

Disinfectant demand and disinfection by-product formation increase when cyanobacterial cells are present in high numbers.



Does the World Health Organization have guideline values for
cyanotoxins, geosmin and 2-methylisoborneol?
The WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality (WHO, 2011) provide the scientific point of departure
for the establishment of national standards and regulations. The Guidelines include a provisional
guideline value of 1 µg/L for total microcystin-LR (free plus cell-bound) – the most toxic compound
in a large family of microcystins – in drinking-water. The guideline value is provisional, as it covers
only microcystin-LR, the database is limited and new data on the toxicity of cyanobacterial toxins
are being generated.

Other cyanotoxins are not included in the Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, as data on their
health effects are insufficient for a stringent toxicological derivation of a guideline value, although
further research is being carried out. For other cyanotoxins, a number of countries have used
default assumptions to derive and implement provisional maximum acceptable concentrations.
                                                                                                                                            100


                                                                                                                                            95


                                                                                                                                            75




                                                                                                                                            25




The Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality do not include guideline values for geosmin or
                                                                                                                                            5


                                                                                                                                            0




2-methylisoborneol, which are aesthetic concerns, not public health issues.




                                                                                                                                                  9
                                                                           Overall conclusions
                                                                           Management of cyanobacteria is most effective when focusing on bloom prevention through catchment and water source
                                                                           management as part of a water safety plan approach to managing risks to a water supply system. The adoption of the water safety
                                                                           plan approach includes establishing a cross-sectoral team to analyse the local situation, assessing the health risks and developing
                                                                           management plans. Water safety plans provide a valuable platform to facilitate communication between stakeholders in the
                                                                           catchment, which may be subject to different legislation (e.g. agriculture, wastewater, water management, health).

                                                                           As part of a water safety plan, it is important to determine bloom potential or track bloom development through biomass
                                                                           determination and nutrient monitoring at regular intervals. If possible, cell counts and species identification may be necessary to
                                                                           determine the potential presence of cyanotoxins.

                                                                           Preventive approaches may not always be effective in the short term, particularly where nutrient loads are high and where
                                                                           implementation of measures to reduce nutrient loads sufficiently for effective control of cyanobacterial biomass takes time. In
                                                                           such situations, treatment processes need to be optimized, taking into consideration the types of cyanobacteria, cyanotoxins and
                                                                           taste- and odour-causing compounds, as well as microbial, chemical and physical hazards in the water supply.

                                                                           Combining monitoring techniques with toxin testing will assess the effectiveness of the barriers in place – from the catchment
                                                                           to the treatment plant outlet. Periodic testing for selected cyanotoxins (e.g. during a bloom and as it declines) is also valuable to
                                                                           verify whether there is a potential health concern during that event.



                                                                           References
                                                                           American Water Works Association (2004). Algae. In: Problem organisms in water: identification and treatment, third edition. Denver (CO): American Water Works
                                                                           Association; 57–68.
                                                                           Chen H, Burke E, Prepas EE (2011). Cyanobacterial toxins in fresh waters. In: Nriagu JO, editor. Encyclopedia of environmental health. Amsterdam: Elsevier; 860–71.
                                                                           Chorus I, Bartram J, editors (1999). Toxic cyanobacteria in water: A guide to their public health consequences, monitoring and management. London: E & FN Spon, on
                                                                           behalf of UNESCO, WHO and UNEP (http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/resources/toxicyanobact/en/, accessed 27 May 2014).
                                                                           Davison A, Howard G, Stevens M, Callan P, Fewtrell L, Deere D et al. (2005). Water safety plans: Managing drinking-water quality from catchment to consumer.
                                                                           Geneva: World Health Organization (http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/wsp0506/en/, accessed 27 May 2014).
                                                                           Health Canada (2002). Cyanobacterial toxins – Microcystin-LR (Guidelines for Canadian Drinking Water Quality: supporting documentation). Ottawa (ON): Health
                                                                           Canada, Federal-Provincial-Territorial Committee on Drinking Water (http://hc-sc.gc.ca/ewh-semt/alt_formats/hecs-sesc/pdf/pubs/water-eau/cyanobacterial_
                                                                           toxins/cyanobacterial_toxins-eng.pdf, accessed 27 May 2014).
                                                                           International Agency for Research on Cancer (2010). Cyanobacterial peptide toxins. IARC Monogr Eval Carcinog Risks Hum. 94:327–412.
                                                                           Japan Water Works Association (2000). Organisms of water supplies in Japan – photographs and descriptions. Tokyo: Japan Water Works Association.
                                                                           Jochimsen EM, Carmichael WW, An JS, Cardo DM, Cookson ST, Holmes CE et al. (1998). Liver failure and death after exposure to microcystins at a hemodialysis center
MANAGEMENT OF CYANOBACTERIA IN DRINKING-WATER SUPPLIES • TECHNICAL BRIEF




                                                                           in Brazil. N Engl J Med. 338(13):873–8.
                                                                           Jüttner F, Watson SB (2007). Biochemical and ecological control of geosmin and 2-methylisoborneol in source waters. Appl Environ Microbiol. 73(14):4395–4406.
                                                                           Merel S, Walker D, Chicana R, Snyder S, Baurès E, Thomas O (2013). State of knowledge and concerns on cyanobacterial blooms and cyanotoxins. Environ Int.
                                                                           59:303–27.
                                                                           Ministry for the Environment, Ministry of Health, New Zealand (2009). New Zealand guidelines for cyanobacteria in recreational fresh waters – Interim guidelines.
                                                                           Wellington: Ministry for the Environment and Ministry of Health (http://www.mfe.govt.nz/publications/water/guidelines-for-cyanobacteria/nz-guidelines-
                                                                           cyanobacteria-recreational-fresh-waters.pdf, accessed 27 May 2014).
                                                                           National Rivers Authority (1990). Toxic blue-green algae. London: National Rivers Authority.
                                                                           Newcombe G, editor (2012). International guidance manual for the management of toxic cyanobacteria. London: IWA Publishing.
                                                                           Newcombe G, House J, Ho L, Baker P, Burch M (2010). Management strategies for cyanobacteria (blue-green algae): A guide for water utilities. Adelaide: Water
                                                                           Quality Research Australia.
                                                                           Newcombe G, Chorus I, Falconer I, Lin TF, editors (2012). Cyanobacteria: Impacts of climate change on occurrence, toxicity and water quality management. Water Res.
                                                                           46(5):1347–1584.
                                                                           Nicholson B, Burch M (2001). Evaluation of analytical methods for the detection and quantification of cyanotoxins in relation to Australian drinking water guidelines.
                                                                           Canberra: National Health and Medical Research Council.
                                                                           Odel LH (2012). The impact of water treatment plant processes on algae and algal toxins. Water Online Newsletter (9 August 2012) (http://www.wateronline.com/
                                                                           doc/the-impact-of-water-treatment-plant-processes-on-algae-and-algal-toxins-0001, accessed 30 July 2013).
                                                                           Paerl HW, Huisman J (2008). Climate. Blooms like it hot. Science. 320(5872):57–8.
                                                                           Umweltbundesamt (2014). Decision support tool for the development of a setting-specific strategy from catchment to consumer against the occurrence of
                                                                           cyanotoxins in drinking water. Dessau-Roßlau: Umweltbundesamt (http://toxische-cyanobakterien.de/en/, accessed 27 May 2014).


10
Water Research Foundation (2010). Treating algal toxins using oxidation, adsorption, and membrane technologies. Denver (CO): Water Research Foundation.
Water Research Foundation (2012). Alternative and innovative methods for source water management of algae and cyanobacteria. Denver (CO): Water Research
Foundation.
WHO (2011). Guidelines for drinking-water quality, fourth edition. Geneva: World Health Organization (http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/
publications/2011/dwq_chapters/en/, accessed 27 May 2014).



Further reading
Boyer GL, Watson S (undated). Common myths about toxic cyanobacteria. SUNY New York and Environment Canada (http://www.thearchipelago.on.ca/images/
environment/ten%20common%20myths%20concerning%20toxic%20cyanobacteria.pdf, accessed 27 May 2014).
Chapman AD (2008). Cyanobacteria. In: Algae: Source to treatment. Denver (CO): American Water Works Association; 125–45.
Chorus I, editor (2012). Current approaches to cyanotoxin risk assessment, risk management and regulations in different countries. Berlin: Federal Environment
Agency (http://www.umweltbundesamt.de/sites/default/files/medien/461/publikationen/4390.pdf, accessed 27 May 2014).
Cooperative Research Centre for Water Quality and Treatment, Australia (2008). Blue green algae: A guide. Drinking water facts. Issue 3 (http://www.waterra.com.
au/_dyn/media/r385/system/attrib/file/326, accessed 27 May 2014).
Japan Water Works Association (2006). [Manuals for drinking water treatment to avoid problem of nuisance organisms.] Tokyo: Japan Water Works Association (in
Japanese).
Sano D, Ishifuji S, Sato Y, Imae Y, Takaara T, Masago Y et al. (2011). Identification and characterization of coagulation inhibitor proteins derived from cyanobacterium
Microcystis aeruginosa. Water Res. 82(8):1096–1102.
Westerhoff P, Nalinakumari B, Peng P (2006). Kinetics of MIB and geosmin oxidation during ozonation. Ozone Sci Eng. 28(5):277–86.




©World Health Organization 2015. Last updated in January 2015.


                                                                                                                                                                           11
http://www.who.int//water_sanitation_health/publications/2011/dwq_guidelines/en/
