                       WHO/HSE/WSH/11.03




Safe Drinking-water from Desalination
© World Health Organization 2011

All rights reserved. Publications of the World Health Organization can be obtained
from WHO Press, World Health Organization, 20 Avenue Appia, 1211 Geneva 27,
Switzerland (tel.: +41 22 791 3264; fax: +41 22 791 4857; e-mail:
bookorders@who.int). Requests for permission to reproduce or translate WHO
publications—whether for sale or for non-commercial distribution—should be
addressed to WHO Press at the above address (fax: +41 22 791 4806; e-mail:
permissions@who.int).

The designations employed and the presentation of the material in this publication do
not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the World Health
Organization concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its
authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. Dotted lines
on maps represent approximate border lines for which there may not yet be full
agreement.

The mention of specific companies or of certain manufacturers’ products does not
imply that they are endorsed or recommended by the World Health Organization in
preference to others of a similar nature that are not mentioned. Errors and omissions
excepted, the names of proprietary products are distinguished by initial capital letters.

All reasonable precautions have been taken by the World Health Organization to
verify the information contained in this publication. However, the published material
is being distributed without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied. The
responsibility for the interpretation and use of the material lies with the reader. In no
event shall the World Health Organization be liable for damages arising from its use.

This publication contains the collective views of an international group of experts and
does not necessarily represent the decisions or the policies of the World Health
Organization.
                                                    Contents


Abbreviations ........................................................................................................... iv

Acknowledgements ................................................................................................. iv

1.      Introduction...................................................................................................... 1

2.      Desalination and water safety plans.............................................................. 2

3.      Source water and potential hazards .............................................................. 4

4.      Desalination processes................................................................................... 5
        4.1 Pretreatment.............................................................................................. 5
        4.2 Treatment .................................................................................................. 7
        4.3 Post-treatment ........................................................................................... 8

5.      Disinfection ...................................................................................................... 8

6.      Blending and remineralization ....................................................................... 9
        6.1 Blending source water with desalinated water .......................................... 9

7.      Storage and distribution of processed water ............................................. 11
        7.1 Microbial quality....................................................................................... 11
        7.2 Chemical quality ...................................................................................... 12
        7.3 Issues with blending desalinated water with other sources of treated
             drinking-water .......................................................................................... 13

8.      References ..................................................................................................... 13

9.      Recommended reading ................................................................................. 15

Annex 1: Chemicals of concern for desalination processes .............................. 19
    Boron and borate ............................................................................................. 19
    Bromide and bromate ...................................................................................... 19
    Sodium and potassium .................................................................................... 20
    Magnesium and calcium .................................................................................. 21
    Organic chemicals found naturally in source waters ....................................... 21

Annex 2: Efficiency of desalination processes for removing pathogens.......... 23
    Reverse osmosis ............................................................................................. 23
    Integrity of the RO system ............................................................................... 23
    Thermal processes .......................................................................................... 24

Annex 3: Remineralization ..................................................................................... 25
    Calcium, magnesium and cardiovascular disease........................................... 26
    Dietary supplementation .................................................................................. 27
    Consumption of low-mineral water .................................................................. 28




                                                            iii
Abbreviations

BTEX      benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, xylenes
CT        product of disinfectant concentration (C) and contact time (T)
CVD       cardiovascular disease
MF        microfiltration
NF        nanofiltration
NOM       natural organic matter
RO        reverse osmosis
WHO       World Health Organization
WSH       Water, Sanitation, Hygiene and Health
WSP       water safety plan




Acknowledgements

The World Health Organization (WHO) wishes to express its appreciation to
all those who contributed to the preparation and development of this
document through the provision of their time, expertise and experience.

Special appreciation is extended to Mr John Fawell, independent consultant,
United Kingdom, who dedicated a significant amount of his time and provided
technical expertise to support the development of this document.

The work on a normative document on desalination and public health was
initiated by the WHO Regional Office for the Eastern Mediterranean. Thanks
are due to Dr Joseph Cotruvo, United States of America, and the team of
experts who contributed to Desalination technology: health and environmental
impacts (Cotruvo et al., 2010). That monograph, jointly published in 2010 by
IWA Publishing and CRC Press, provides a comprehensive overview of the
public health and environmental aspects of desalination systems. It provided
the basis for important technical inputs into the present technical document,
which focuses on the public health aspects of desalination.

The development and production of this document were coordinated and
managed by staff of the Water, Sanitation, Hygiene and Health (WSH) unit of
WHO, including Mr Robert Bos (coordinator, WSH), Mr Bruce Gordon and Mr
Chee-Keong Chew (technical officers).

The secretarial support provided by Ms Penny Ward and Ms Jacqueline
Ravenscroft is also gratefully acknowledged.




                                      iv
1. Introduction
Desalination is increasingly being used to provide drinking-water under
conditions of freshwater scarcity. Water scarcity is estimated to affect one in
three people on every continent of the globe, and almost one fifth of the
world’s population live in areas where water is physically scarce. This
situation is expected to worsen as competing needs for water intensify along
with population growth, urbanization, climate change impacts and increases in
household and industrial uses.

Desalination may be applied to waters of varying levels of salinity, such as
brackish groundwater, estuarine water or seawater; in some regions, it forms
the primary source of drinking-water. At its origins, desalination technology
was primarily thermal, by flash distillation, but as a result of technological
advances, membranes have become a more cost-effective alternative that is
increasingly being selected for new systems. Many thermal plants remain in
use.

Saline sources are different from freshwater sources in that they always
require a substantive treatment step. However, while the desalination process
usually provides a significant barrier to both pathogens and chemical
contaminants, this barrier is not necessarily absolute, and a number of issues
could potentially have an impact on public health. Some of these are similar to
the challenges encountered in most piped water systems, but others, such as
those related to stabilizing and remineralizing the water to prevent it from
being excessively aggressive, are different and therefore must be addressed
within the context of a site-specific health risk management plan (see section
2 below).

This document aims to:

•   highlight the principal health risks related to different desalination
    processes;
•   provide guidance on appropriate risk assessment and risk management
    procedures in order to ensure the safety of desalinated drinking-water.

The document introduces the concept of water safety plans (WSPs) for
desalination systems, provides an overview of potential hazards in source
water and describes microbial and chemical risks and other key issues
associated with treatment, remineralization, storage and distribution. More
detailed information is presented in a series of annexes.

The document will be of use to health authorities, water quality regulators,
operators of desalination plants and others interested in water quality and
health issues.

A comprehensive examination of technical and water quality issues pertaining
to desalination, such as environmental impacts, engineering considerations
and equipment and processes for different desalination technologies, is


                                       1
provided in Desalination technology: health and environmental impacts
(Cotruvo et al., 2010).


2. Desalination and water safety plans
As with any drinking-water supply, the development of a WSP is an essential
first step in the provision of safe drinking-water (Figure 1). For any new
system, development of a WSP should be initiated at the planning phase and
carried through as the plant is built and commissioned. For existing plants,
WSPs are equally important, as they help to identify potential risks and
available barriers in their systems and support the introduction of a preventive
risk management approach to problems that could have an impact on the
quantity and quality of water supplied.


Figure 1. Framework for safe drinking-water (WHO, 2011)




A WSP maps the water supply system from catchment to tap to facilitate a
thorough understanding of the system, including all its steps and stages,
identifies the hazards that may be introduced at each stage and determines
the risks associated with those hazards. Hazards are physical, microbial and
chemical contaminants that could have an impact on health or adversely
affect the acceptability (e.g. taste and odour) of the water to consumers.
Hazards may also be substances or circumstances that threaten the operation
of the desalination plant. The risks may be the potential for a particular hazard
to reach the consumer in numbers (pathogens) or concentrations (chemicals)
that will result in illness or the water becoming unacceptable. This may
include the risk of exceeding the current drinking-water standards in a given
country. In addition to technical considerations, a WSP also entails essential
management components, such as training, maintaining records,
documentation and periodic review of operating procedures to enhance the


                                         2
operation and management of the water supply system. Table 1 illustrates the
key elements of a WSP for desalination.


Table 1. Elements of a water safety plan for desalination

 Component                               Action
 Description of the system, including    Thoroughly understand and document the system
 the water source and sources of         from the source to the tap.
 hazards.
 Assess the risks of hazards             Determine the pathogens or chemicals that could be
 reaching consumers in numbers or        introduced at each stage, and ensure that barriers
 concentrations of concern, and          or operational procedures are in place to reduce the
 ensure that steps are in place to       risks to meet health-based targets.
 mitigate the risks.
 Ensure that the barriers are working    Develop operational monitoring to demonstrate that
 efficiently at all times, and develop   processes are working efficiently and an alert
 procedures for responding when          system to warn upon a decrease in effectiveness.
 efficiency starts to fall.              Develop management procedures to ensure that all
                                         of the procedures are followed.
 Verification that the WSP is working    Analyse key indicators of water quality and safety,
 adequately and that a safe and          and assess against appropriate standards and
 acceptable supply of drinking-water     guidelines.
 is delivered.
 Develop supporting programmes.          Activities in such programmes are tailored to the
                                         specific needs and priorities of the water supply
                                         system and may vary from consumer education and
                                         community engagement to workforce training
                                         programmes.
 Periodically review the WSP, and        Ensure that operation and management procedures
 update the WSP in the wake of           are kept up to date and revised to incorporate
 problems or emergencies.                lessons learnt.



Specific hazards and risks are considered in the following sections. Hazards
may be present in source waters or may arise during treatment or other
drinking-water production processes, during distribution and in consumer
premises. Once the hazards have been identified, the associated risks need
to be mitigated by removing or reducing their influx into the source using
specific treatment barriers and sound operation and management procedures.
A key step is operational monitoring of processes or barriers to ensure that
they are working optimally at all times. However, all monitoring should be
used to provide information that can be applied to ensure the proper
management of the system and safe water quality. The WSP will also include
procedures to ensure that chemicals and materials used in the system comply
with requirements and will not introduce hazards. Appropriate emergency
plans that would cover all aspects of the system, from a contamination
incident in the raw water source to a breakdown in treatment and distribution
(e.g. in final disinfection or damage to the distribution system), are also
important components. In addition, WSPs for desalination systems should
take into account the process of remineralization or stabilizing the treated
water before distribution.



                                               3
Detailed information on WSPs can be found in the World Health
Organization’s (WHO) Guidelines for drinking-water quality (WHO, 2011) and
supporting WHO guidance documents, such as the Water safety plan manual:
step-by-step risk management for drinking-water suppliers (WHO, 2009).


3. Source water and potential hazards
Source water for desalination can be marine or brackish surface water or
highly mineralized groundwater. By definition, this water has a significant
content of naturally occurring inorganic ions, and the objective of treatment is
to reduce the concentration of, or remove, these substances. These naturally
occurring substances include some that would be of potential concern if
present in sufficient concentrations after treatment. Like all surface water
sources and some groundwater sources, there can be contamination by
pathogenic viruses, bacteria and parasites and by a variety of chemical
contaminants from human activities.

There are notable differences between freshwater sources and brackish or
saline sources. In particular, the survival of many microbial pathogens is
significantly reduced in saline waters, especially in combination with a high
level of solar radiation. However, some pathogens, such as Vibrio cholerae,
do survive well in saline waters. There are also many marine algae that can
produce toxins of concern to human health. These issues are covered in
detail in Desalination technology: health and environmental impacts (Cotruvo
et al., 2010).

Chemical constituents of interest include boron (borate), bromide, iodide,
sodium and potassium; they may require additional actions for removal
(boron) or are present in such concentrations as to leave significant residues.
While natural organic matter (NOM) varies significantly, there are a number of
organic substances, coming from both natural and anthropogenic sources,
that are of particular interest. Individual and groups of chemicals that are of
concern for desalination processes are considered in more detail in Annex 1.

Understanding the hazards that are likely to be present in the source water is
a critical condition for the proper design of the desalination process; it
highlights the need for pretreatment steps and the removal of contaminants in
treatment or the need for additional treatment barriers. In the case of potential
problems from contaminants, either chemical or microbial, the first step in
reducing the associated risks is to try to prevent or reduce inputs at source. In
some cases, this may be possible; in other cases, siting of the raw water
intake may help to minimize the intake of contaminants into the desalination
plant. However, thermal plants, in particular, are often co-located with power
plants, and there may be limited options in terms of suitable locations for the
intake. Where source water quality is highly variable, some form of monitoring
will help to provide information in managing water abstraction to minimize the
intake of constituents or contaminants. For example, some estuarine-based
desalination plants abstract water only at a particular tide level to reduce the
salinity in the source water and the concentrations of possible anthropogenic


                                        4
contaminants. In addition, knowledge of potential contaminants is important in
preparing emergency plans to protect source water quality (e.g. to deal with
oil spills in oil-producing regions).


4. Desalination processes
The desalination process is primarily intended to remove natural ionic
contaminants, but some substances are not as well removed as others.
For example, boron, which can be present in significant concentrations in
saline waters, is not well removed by reverse osmosis (RO). While most
systems remove a significant proportion of microbial pathogens, in some
circumstances, there is a significant potential for some pathogen transfer.
Electrodialysis reversal systems do not provide any barrier against pathogens,
and electrodialysis reversal is, therefore, rarely considered to serve as the
main treatment barrier for drinking-water production.

In addition, a number of chemical treatments are used to prepare and
maintain the desalination systems, and procedures must be established to
ensure that the associated compounds do not reach final water in
unacceptable concentrations. These processes and the chemicals used are
considered in detail in Cotruvo et al. (2010). Cleaning of membranes is
fundamental for optimal treatment performance and the quality of water
coming from the membranes. When cleaning agents are applied, either online
or offline, these chemicals can be present in the system at high
concentrations that could negatively affect treated water quality. Therefore,
the membranes should be properly flushed before installation and before the
system goes back online, and the flushing solution should be disposed of
suitably as waste. Pretreatment of the waste will be necessary, and it is
important that this waste stream be disposed of properly so that it does not
contaminate either source waters or waters that might be used for blending
with desalinated water.

Materials such as piping and contact surfaces in treatment systems and
processes that come into contact with drinking-water need to be assessed to
ensure that no harmful chemicals or substances in these materials are
introduced that could cause WHO guideline values to be exceeded, pose a
hazard to health or have an impact on the acceptability of the final water.
Procedures ensuring compliance are an important component of the WSP.

4.1 Pretreatment
Pretreatment of the source water after the intake is normally designed to
remove contaminants that will interfere with the desalination process by, for
example, scale formation or membrane fouling. This treatment can include
coagulation and filtration or membrane filtration processes that will remove
particulate and organic matter, including a significant reduction of NOM,
although seawater is generally low in NOM. A disinfectant such as chlorine is
normally applied to minimize fouling and reduce the risk of pathogens carrying
over to the product water.


                                      5
Humic and fulvic acids and other related substances that constitute NOM can
react with chlorine (and other disinfectants) to produce a wide range of
halogenated and oxidation by-products. In the presence of the high bromide
concentrations found in seawater and many brackish waters, the bromide is
oxidized to bromine or hypobromite, which will take part in the halogenation
reactions and produce organobromine products as the predominant by-
products. Data from studies on the chlorination of seawater show that the
disinfection by-products are dominated by brominated trihalomethanes,
particularly bromoform and, to a lesser extent, dibromochloromethane. The
WHO Guidelines for drinking-water quality consider these substances in
detail, and guideline values have been established for them. There may also
be small quantities of iodinated trihalomethanes present, which may have an
impact on taste, but there are no guideline values for these substances; there
are limited data on their presence in disinfected fresh water (Plewa et al.,
2004) and some data on their occurrence in disinfected water with high salt
content (Richardson et al., 2003). The levels of other potential chlorination by-
products, such as the haloacetic acids, will be a function of the precursors
present. Again, either distillation or membranes will remove most of these
disinfection by-products as well as their precursors, although a proportion of
the smaller or more volatile molecules may pass through treatment.

Organonitrogen compounds, particularly N-nitrosodimethylamine and other
nitrosamines (e.g. nitrosodiethylamine), may form during chloramination if the
appropriate secondary amines are present in the source water or possibly in
coagulants. Numerous N-chloroamine and N-chloroamide compounds are
undoubtedly formed at very low concentrations, but there are limited data on
their occurrence and toxicology. The body of data on the formation of N-
nitroso compounds during drinking-water distribution is limited but increasing;
there appear to be no data, however, on their presence in desalinated water.
There is evidence of the formation of nitrosamines in chlorinated wastewater,
where there will also be ammonia and secondary amines present. Thus,
where chlorinated sewage effluents are likely to have an impact on the raw
water, there may be potential for these compounds to volatilize and be carried
over into the desalinated product water. N-Nitrosodimethylamine is known to
be poorly removed by RO membranes because of its low molecular weight,
and it is often treated by advanced oxidation processes in water reuse
schemes.

Where hypochlorite is produced by electrolytic generation from seawater or
brine with a high bromide level, this will lead to the formation of bromate.
Because it is ionic, bromate is not likely to pass through membranes and
would not be expected to carry over in thermal systems. Where hypochlorite
is allowed to age, there is potential for the formation and build-up of chlorate,
which can be well removed by either distillation or membranes. The presence
of chlorate in finished water would usually be due to post-treatment
chlorination.




                                        6
4.2 Treatment
The efficiency of desalination plants in removing or inactivating microbial
contaminants can be assessed by examining the expected performance and
factors affecting the quality of each stream or combined final treated water.
The potential for survival of microorganisms depends upon the capability and
operating conditions of each process unit for their removal or inactivation.
Evaluation should include any pretreatment processes, the water produced by
membrane processes or the water resulting from thermal treatment
processes.

Membranes need to be protected from particulates to prevent clogging and
fouling, and so particulate removal processes are employed, while oxidants
and biocides may be employed to prevent fouling of the RO membranes.
Although these pretreatments are not necessarily employed to reduce the
numbers of waterborne pathogens, they will have an impact on numbers,
particularly through particle removal.

Pretreatments include the use of membranes for microfiltration (MF) and
nanofiltration (NF) to prepare the water for the subsequent desalination
process. MF and NF have a substantial capacity to physically remove a large
proportion of particulate-associated microorganisms as well as some
dissolved solids. They can effectively remove at least 6 logs of
microorganisms according to their pore size distribution, but the actual
removal should be validated before application as a pretreatment
(LeChevallier & Kwok-Keung, 2004).

A vital part of the WSP is the introduction of procedures to monitor that
treatment is operating effectively and efficiently. For membrane systems, the
barrier function depends on the integrity of the membranes. Integrity testing of
the membranes is therefore crucial, as breaches can lead to the passage of
pathogens into the processed water. The efficiency of different desalination
technologies to remove pathogens is discussed in Annex 2.

There is the possibility that a number of volatile organic contaminants,
including those present in raw water and those resulting from disinfection,
could carry over to the product water in thermal distillation processes. There is
a need to understand under what circumstances this will take place and to
confirm that those types of substances are adequately removed.

Membranes provide a barrier to most chemical compounds, although not
always a complete barrier. The propensity of boron (as borate or boric acid)
and also arsenite to pass through membranes raises the question as to what
other anions and small neutral organic molecules will pass through
membranes. There is a need for more specific data from actual desalination
facilities and for specific types of membranes. This would constitute
investigative monitoring either in a pilot plant or retrospectively in an
operational plant.

Flash distillation desalination plants are often sited beside coastal power
plants, and an additional potential concern, for which there appear to be no


                                       7
firm data, is the use of hydrazine in power plants as an oxygen scavenger.
Although hydrazine itself is no longer used, alternatives appear to break down
to hydrazine. Where these compounds are used, it is important that there be
no potential to transfer, through steam leaks, into the desalination stream.

4.3 Post-treatment
Post-treatment consists of disinfection and conditioning (i.e. blending and
remineralization) to reduce the aggressive nature of the treated water. Both
processes are key considerations for desalination and have the potential to
introduce microbial and chemical contaminants into the water They are
considered in greater detail in the following sections.


5. Disinfection
Desalinated waters constitute a relatively easy disinfection challenge because
of their low total organic carbon and particle content, low microbial loads and
minimal oxidant demand after desalination treatments. Turbidity is not likely to
affect chemical disinfectant performance, as turbidity values of desalinated
water are low. Post-treatment (e.g. with lime) can cause an increase of
inorganic turbidity that would not interfere with disinfection by chlorine. The
target levels of inactivation for pathogens remaining in desalinated waters can
readily be achieved by appropriate disinfection processes, discussed in the
WHO Guidelines for drinking-water quality (WHO, 2011). Once the target
levels of disinfection have been achieved, it is good practice to maintain an
appropriate level of residual disinfectant in the product water during
distribution.

Issues to be considered as specific to the disinfection of desalinated water
are:

•     the potential passage of viruses through some RO membranes, which may
      require adequate virus inactivation downstream of RO. For CT values (the
      product of disinfectant concentration and contact time) for the inactivation
      of viruses, see Tables 2 and 3 (Cotruvo et al., 2010);
•     the potential loss of integrity of membranes, which could lead to the
      passage of pathogens into the process water.


Table 2. CT values for inactivation of viruses
                                                  CT value (mg·min/l)
    Disinfectant                2 log                    3 log          4 log
    Chlorinea                     3                        4             6
                 b
    Chloramine                   643                     1067           1491
                     c
    Chlorine dioxide             4.2                      12.8          25.1
a
  Based on 10 °C, pH 6–9, free chlorine residual of 0.2–0.5 mg/l.
b
  Based on 10 °C, pH 8.
c
  Based on 10 °C, pH 6–9.
Source: CT values from USEPA (1991).


                                              8
Table 3. CT values for inactivation of viruses using chloramines

                                               CT value (mg·min/l)
 Temperature (°C)              2 log                   3 log         4 log
 5                              857                    1423           1988
 10                             643                    1067           1491
 15                             428                     712           994
 20                             321                     534           746
 25                             214                     356           497
Source: CT values from USEPA (1991).



These issues can be addressed in most cases by applying effective post-
desalination disinfection using chlorine-based or alternative disinfection
processes (ultraviolet light, ozone, etc.) as an additional barrier to reduce the
possible risks. Preventive measures and procedures, as advocated by the
WSP approach, should be undertaken to ensure that high levels of chemical
contaminants are not introduced during this process (e.g. limits on bromate in
electrolytically generated hypochlorite and appropriate storage of hypochlorite
solution to prevent formation of high levels of chlorate). Because of the low
NOM content of desalinated water, organic by-products are usually present in
low concentrations only, although the use of ozone may lead to bromate
formation.


6. Blending and remineralization
Desalinated water is low in minerals and is poorly buffered. It is usually
aggressive to cementitious and metallic materials used in storage, distribution
and plumbing and requires conditioning to address this problem. Blending
desalinated water with source water or partially treated water is a common
practice, and the addition of minerals to achieve a balanced mineral content in
desalinated water is increasingly being adopted. This latter approach may
also be used to make a contribution to the mineral intake of consumers in
regions where traditional sources of water have contained significant levels of
minerals. Remineralization is considered in detail in Annex 3, and blending is
considered further below.

6.1 Blending source water with desalinated water
The quality of the source water used for blending is particularly important to
the evaluation of the microbial risk of the blended water if there will be mixing
of incompletely treated water with desalinated water prior to distribution. The
amount of water used for blending may vary from less than 1% to 10% and
can include partially treated seawater and untreated groundwater. This
potential short-circuiting of the main treatment process should not allow
pathogens and other undesirable microorganisms to be introduced into the
finished desalinated water. This water should, therefore, be considered as
source water and adequately treated to ensure that it is safe. In addition, there


                                           9
should be specific minimum requirements for disinfection and particle removal
and monitoring methods for appropriate performance surrogates (Cotruvo et
al., 2010; WHO, 2011). Requirements for treatment performance to remove
the bacteria, viruses and protozoan parasites should also be designed
according to the level of contamination of the raw water used for blending.
Similar considerations regarding the formation of by-products in the blending
water apply as discussed under pretreatment processes (see section 4.1).
There are currently WHO guideline values for several disinfection by-
products. Generally, the NOM content in finished water is very low, and the
contribution of NOM from the blending water will not normally be significant,
and so the yield of by-products from final disinfection would be expected to be
low. Chlorine used for disinfection that is generated from brine with high
bromide levels may contain significant levels of bromate that could exceed the
WHO bromate guideline value for drinking-water. Effective procedures should,
therefore, be included in the WSP to ensure that this does not happen.

Seawater as a source of water for blending has both advantages and
disadvantages, particularly in terms of corrosion and taste if the blending
levels exceed about 1%. In addition, bromide would likely continue to react
with residual disinfectants during storage and distribution. Blending with
seawater will result in the addition of sodium and some potassium, calcium,
magnesium, chlorides and other salts to drinking-water. Therefore,
consideration should be given to the natural minerals present and whether
these will result in finished water not meeting the WHO guideline values or
having unacceptable taste. There is also an issue with regard to potential
anthropogenic pollutants from a range of sources that need to be considered
on a local basis, whenever any external and potentially minimally treated
source is used. It is, therefore, important to take into account potential
pollution sources and threats in the WSP and introduce appropriate barriers to
minimize the risks from any hazards identified.

In addition, other corrosion-inhibiting chemicals, primarily silicates,
orthophosphate or polyphosphate, may be added to the water. Such
chemicals are widely used in many parts of the world and are not of direct
consequence to health. However, it is important that they be of a suitable
quality for addition to drinking-water and that there are no contaminants of
concern, particularly those covered in the WHO Guidelines for drinking-water
quality (WHO, 2011), that would make a significant contribution to the
concentrations of such contaminants in drinking-water. It is also important that
they be verified to be always of an appropriate quality. Approval systems for
chemicals that specify the quality and acceptable levels of contaminants are
available. The development of guidance on how such systems can and should
operate is under consideration in the ongoing work for the WHO Guidelines
for drinking-water quality. Where remineralization is practised, it is also
important to ensure that the minerals added are of an appropriate quality and
do not introduce contaminants that adversely affect water quality.




                                      10
7. Storage and distribution of processed water
Desalinated water usually undergoes storage prior to or during distribution,
and the problems encountered during storage and distribution are similar to
those encountered for other supplies derived from fresh water. These relate to
the potential introduction of contaminants, both microbial and chemical, the
problem of corrosion of materials and the potential for materials and corrosion
products to affect water quality, and the growth of pathogenic and potential
nuisance organisms. Similar to most drinking-water supplies, there is often a
requirement for blending with existing drinking-water streams.

7.1 Microbial quality
The challenge of maintaining microbial water quality during storage and
distribution is not specific to desalinated water. Microorganisms will grow
during distribution, especially in the absence of an effective residual
disinfectant and at the high water temperatures often encountered. A broad
spectrum of microbial species, such as Legionella, Aeromonas,
Pseudomonas, Burkholderia pseudomallei and atypical mycobacteria, some
of which include strains that are opportunistic pathogens, can be present in
distributed waters. The routes of transmission of these bacteria include
inhalation and contact (bathing), with infections occurring in the respiratory
tract, in skin lesions or in the brain (Craun & Calderon, 2001). There is no
evidence of an association of any of these organisms with gastrointestinal
infection through ingestion of drinking-water (Ainsworth et al., 2004), but
Legionella can grow to significant numbers at temperatures of 25–50 °C.
Where temperatures in hot or cold water distribution systems cannot be
maintained outside the range of 25–50 °C, greater attention to disinfection
and operating measures aimed at limiting the development of biofilms is
required. Accumulation of sludge, scale, rust, algae or slime deposits in water
distribution systems supports the growth of Legionella spp., as does stagnant
water (Lin et al., 1998). Systems that are kept clean and flowing are less likely
to support excess growth of Legionella spp. Care should also be taken to
select plumbing materials that do not support microbial growth and the
development of biofilms. Further guidance is available in the WHO Guidelines
for drinking-water quality (WHO, 2011) and in Health aspects of plumbing
(WHO/WPC, 2006).

Non-pathogenic organisms will grow during distribution, and these contribute
to the heterotrophic plate count. The development of heterotrophic plate
counts during distribution is no longer considered a significant health risk per
se, but its value as an indicator of water quality and treatment efficacy has
been reiterated (WHO, 2003). However, such organisms can contribute to
problems of acceptability.

The maintenance of water quality during storage and distribution depends on
a number of factors, including:

•   the amount of biodegradable organic matter available and trace nutrients
    to support the growth of bacteria;


                                       11
•   balancing the water to reduce corrosion of iron from iron pipes and
    corrosion sediment;
•   the availability and nature of attachment surfaces, in particular the pipe
    and reservoir surfaces, and the presence of corrosion;
•   the maintenance of a disinfectant residual;
•   the maintenance of integrity in the pipes and reservoirs;
•   the growth conditions, such as system retention time, hydraulic conditions
    and temperature.

The WHO documents Safe piped water: managing microbial water quality in
piped distribution systems (Ainsworth et al., 2004) and Health aspects of
plumbing (WHO/WPC, 2006) set risk management and risk reduction
frameworks to limit the health risk associated with the distribution of piped
water, and these guidelines also apply to desalinated water. Those water
quality concerns should be considered in light of the potential for microbial
regrowth.

High water temperatures will limit the maintenance of an effective disinfectant
residual throughout the distribution system as a result of the increased
chemical reactivity of the disinfectant. The use of chloramines constitutes an
advantageous alternative to free chlorine in distribution systems with long
retention times and operating at elevated ambient or system temperature.
Chloramines also seem to be more effective at limiting Legionella growth in
domestic plumbing; however, nitrification can occur from chloramines when
Nitrosomonas bacteria and suitable conditions (pH, temperature, dissolved
oxygen level) are present.

7.2 Chemical quality
Desalinated water is initially more corrosive than many other drinking-water
sources, and it is important, as indicated above, that the water be stabilized to
minimize its corrosive effect on pipes and fittings used in distribution and
plumbing systems in buildings. Where tankers are used for distribution, the
potential for corrosion of the water tanks must be considered. The
requirement is that corrosion should not give rise to levels of metals that
exceed the WHO guideline values or result in unacceptable appearance or
taste or lead to physical damage to surfaces in contact with water. These can
include metals from primary distribution and storage, particularly iron, and
from plumbing and fittings in buildings, including lead, copper and sometimes
nickel. Iron is a common cause of discoloured water that significantly reduces
the aesthetic acceptability of the water for both drinking and household uses.
Water that is low in pH can also corrode cement- or concrete-lined pipes or
storage reservoirs. In many cases, a range of coatings and materials will be
used to coat pipes or storage reservoirs, or storage tanks in buildings, in order
to protect against corrosion. It is important that these materials be certified as
safe for use with potable water. As indicated above, approval schemes have
an important part to play in ensuring their safety and reducing the potential
impact on consumer acceptability. There is a particular consideration in the
approval of materials, as in many of these circumstances they will be used at
elevated temperatures, which can exacerbate leaching of component metals.


                                       12
Establishing procedures for managing the distribution system is an important
part of the WSP. These include mapping the storage and distribution system
and identifying any points where there is potential for ingress of microbial and
chemical contaminants that could have an impact on water quality,
acceptability and health. These procedures should also consider operational
management of the water system to avoid surges or sudden disturbances that
could dislodge sediments. In a number of countries, desalinated water may be
distributed in tankers to consumer premises where the water is stored again.
Transfer points make up part of the distribution system, but they potentially
introduce vulnerable points where contamination can occur. It is, therefore,
important that the WSP also covers this aspect of distribution, with
appropriate procedures to ensure that the water does not deteriorate prior to
being used for drinking or food preparation.

7.3 Issues with blending desalinated water with other sources of treated
drinking-water
Blending of desalinated water with groundwater or potable water from other
sources is often a means of increasing the reliability and flexibility of water
supply. This practice does not raise any special issues for desalinated water
with regard to microbiological quality. Blending water from different sources
does, however, have quality implications. Special care should be taken
regarding the potential for changes in the taste and mineral characteristics of
the water to prevent adverse impacts on consumer perception of quality,
especially if blending is intermittent and the blending ratio is highly dynamic.
Taylor et al. (2006) provided an excellent review of issues to take into
consideration and results from an extensive pilot study of the impact of
blending water treated by RO with potable water from groundwater and
surface water in various pipe materials. It is of special relevance to maintain
conditions aimed at minimizing iron, lead and copper release (selection of
disinfectant and dosage adjustment) and to control nitrification when
chloramines are used as the secondary disinfectant.


8. References
Adham S et al. (1998a) Monitoring the integrity of reverse osmosis membranes. Desalination,
119(1–3):143–150.

Adham S et al. (1998b) Rejection of MS-2 virus by RO membranes. Journal of the American
Water Works Association, 90(9):130–135.

Ainsworth R et al. (2004) Safe piped water: managing microbial water quality in piped
distribution systems. Geneva, World Health Organization
(http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/924156251X/en/index.html).

Bull RJ, Cotruvo JA, eds (2006) A research strategy to improve risk estimates for bromate in
drinking-water. Toxicology, 221(2–3):135–248.

Colvin CK et al. (2000) Microbial removal by NF/RO. Presented at the American Water Works
Association Annual Conference, Denver, Colorado, 11–15 June 2000.



                                             13
Cotruvo JA (2006) Health aspects of calcium and magnesium in drinking water. Water
Conditioning & Purification, 48(6):40–44 (http://www.wcponline.com/pdf/Cotruvo.pdf).

Cotruvo J et al. (2010) Desalination technology—Health and environmental impacts. Boca
Raton, Florida, IWA Publishing and CRC Press.

Craun GF, Calderon RL (2001) Waterborne disease outbreaks caused by distribution system
deficiencies. Journal of the American Water Works Association, 93(9):64–75.

FAO/WHO (1988) Bromide ion. In: Pesticide residues in food—1988 evaluations. Geneva,
World Health Organization, Joint FAO/WHO Meeting on Pesticide Residues
(http://www.inchem.org/documents/jmpr/jmpmono/v88pr03.htm).

Gagliardo PF et al. (1997) Membranes as an alternative to disinfection. Presented at the
American Water Works Association Annual Conference, Atlanta, Georgia.

Kitis M et al. (2002) Microbial removal and integrity monitoring of high-pressure membranes.
Presented at the American Water Works Association Water Quality Technology Conference,
Seattle, Washington.

Kitis M et al. (2003) Evaluation of biologic and non-biologic methods for assessing virus
removal by and integrity of high pressure membrane systems. Water Supply, 3(5–6):81–92.

Kozisek F (2005) Health risks from drinking demineralised water. In: Nutrients in drinking-
water. Geneva, World Health Organization, pp. 148–163
(http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/nutrientsindw/en/index.html).

LeChevallier MW, Kwok-Keung A (2004) Water treatment and pathogen control: process
efficiency in achieving safe drinking-water. London, IWA Publishing on behalf of the World
Health Organization
(http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/9241562552/en/index.html).

Lin YE et al. (1998) Legionella in water distribution system. Journal of the American Water
Works Association, 90(9):112–121.

Lovins WA et al. (1999) Multi-contaminant removal by integrated membrane systems.
Presented at the American Water Works Association Water Quality Technology Conference,
Tampa, Florida.

McGuire Environmental Consultants Inc. (2005) Final report: Pharmaceuticals, personal care
products and endocrine disruptors—Implications for Poseidon Resources Corporation’s
proposed ocean desalination facility in Carlsbad. Santa Monica, California, McGuire/Malcolm
Pirnie.

Plewa M et al. (2004) Chemical and biological characterization of newly discovered iodoacid
drinking water disinfection byproducts. Environmental Science and Technology, 38(18):4713–
4722.

Richardson S et al. (2003) Tribromopyrrole, brominated acids, and other disinfection
byproducts produced by disinfection of drinking water rich in bromide. Environmental Science
and Technology, 37(17):3782–3793.

Taylor JS, Jacobs EP (1996) Reverse osmosis and nanofiltration. In: Mallevialle J, Odendaal
PE, Wiesner MR, eds. Water treatment and membrane processes, New York, NY, McGraw-
Hill, pp. 9.18–9.22.

Taylor JS et al. (2006) Effects of blending on distribution system water quality. Denver,
Colorado, American Water Works Association Research Foundation (Report 91065F).




                                              14
Thompson T et al. (2007) Chemical safety of drinking-water: assessing priorities for risk
management. Geneva, World Health Organization
(http://whqlibdoc.who.int/publications/2007/9789241546768_eng.pdf).

USBR (2003) Desalting handbook for planners, 3rd ed. Denver, Colorado, United States
Department of the Interior, Bureau of Reclamation, Water Treatment Engineering and
Research Group (Desalination and Water Purification Research and Development Report No.
72).

USEPA (1991) Guidance manual for compliance with the filtration and disinfection
requirements for public water systems using surface water sources. Washington, DC, United
States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA No. 570391001;
http://www.epa.gov/safewater/mdbp/guidsws.pdf).

Van der Hoek JP et al. (2000) RO treatment: selection of a pretreatment scheme based on
fouling characteristics and operating conditions based on environmental impact. Desalination,
127(1):89–101.

WHO (2003) Guidelines for safe recreational water environments. Vol. 1. Coastal and fresh
waters. Geneva, World Health Organization
(http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/bathing/srwe1/en/).

WHO (2005a) Bromate in drinking-water. Background document for development of WHO
Guidelines for drinking-water quality. Geneva, World Health Organization
(WHO/SDE/WSH/05.08/78; WHO/HSE/WSH/09.04/54;
http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/chemicals/en/).

WHO (2005b) Nutrients in drinking-water. Geneva, World Health Organization
(http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/nutrientsindw/en/index.html).

WHO (2006) Meeting of experts on the possible protective effect of hard water against
cardiovascular disease, Washington, D.C., USA, 27–28 April 2006. Geneva, World Health
Organization (WHO/SDE/WSH/06.06;
http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/gdwqrevision/cardiofullreport.pdf).

WHO (2009) Water safety plan manual: step-by-step risk management for drinking-water
suppliers. Geneva, World Health Organization
(http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/WSP/en/index.html).

WHO (2011) Guidelines for drinking-water quality, 4th ed. Geneva, World Health Organization
(in press).

WHO/WPC (2006) Health aspects of plumbing. Geneva, World Health Organization and
World Plumbing Council
(http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/publications/plumbinghealthasp/en/index.html).

Yermiyahu U et al. (2007) Rethinking desalinated water quality and agriculture. Science,
318:920–921.



9. Recommended reading
AWWA (2006) Waterborne pathogens. Denver, Colorado, American Water Works Association
(AWWA Manual of Practices, M48).

Block JC (1992) Biofilms in drinking-water distribution system. In: Melo LF et al., eds.
Biofilms—science and technology. Dordrecht, Kluwer Academic Publishers, pp. 469–485.




                                              15
Carroll T et al. (2000) The fouling of microfiltration membranes by NOM after coagulation
treatment. Water Research, 34(11):2861–2868.

Cho J, Amy G, Pellegrino J (2000) Membrane filtration of natural organic matter: factors and
mechanisms affecting rejection and flux decline with charged ultrafiltration (UF) membrane.
Journal of Membrane Science, 164:89–110.

Cotruvo JA et al., eds (2004) Waterborne zoonoses: identification, causes and control.
London, IWA Publishing on behalf of the World Health Organization (Emerging Issues in
Water and Infectious Disease Series;
http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/diseases/zoonoses/en/index.html).

Davison A et al. (2005) Water safety plans: managing drinking-water from catchment to
consumer. Geneva, World Health Organization (WHO/SDE/WSH/05.06;
http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/wsp0506/en/index.html).

Dufour A et al. (2003) Assessing microbial safety of drinking-water: improving approaches
and methods. London, IWA Publishing on behalf of the World Health Organization (Drinking-
water Quality Series; http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/9241546301/en/).

Escobar IC, Hong S, Randall AA (2000) Removal of assimilable organic carbon and
biodegradable dissolved organic carbon by reverse osmosis and nanofiltration membranes.
Journal of Membrane Science, 175(1):1–18.

Fan L et al. (2001) Influence of the characteristics of natural organic matter on the fouling of
microfiltration membranes. Water Research, 35(18):4455–4463.

Fayer R et al. (1998) Survival of infectious Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts in seawater and
eastern oysters (Crassostrea virginica) in the Chesapeake Bay. Applied and Environmental
Microbiology, 64(3):1070–1074.

Flemming HC et al. (1997) Biofouling—the Achilles heel of membrane processes.
Desalination, 113(2):215–225.

Fonseca AC et al. (2003) Isolating and modelling critical factors governing biofouling of
nanofiltration membranes. Presented at the American Water Works Association Membrane
Technology Conference, Atlanta, Georgia.

Fujioka RS, Yoneyama BS (2002) Sunlight inactivation of human enteric viruses and fecal
bacteria. Water Science and Technology, 46(11–12):291–295.

Gabelich CJ et al. (2003) Pilot-scale testing of reverse osmosis using conventional treatment
and microfiltration. Desalination, 154:207–223.

Graczyk TK et al. (1999) Giardia duodenalis cysts of genotype A recovered from clams in the
Chesapeake Bay subestuary, Rhode River. American Journal of Tropical Medicine and
Hygiene, 61(4):526–529.

Griffini O et al. (1999) Formation and removal of biodegradable ozonation by-products during
ozonation–biofiltration treatment: pilot-scale evaluation. Ozone Science and Engineering,
21(1):79–98.

Hong S et al. (2005) Biostability characterization in a full-scale hybrid NF/RO treatment
system. Journal of the American Water Works Association, 97(5):101–110.

Jiang SC, Fu W (2001) Seasonal abundance and distribution of Vibrio cholerae in coastal
waters quantified by a 16S–23S intergenic spacer probe. Microbial Ecology, 42(4):540–548.




                                               16
Jiang SC et al. (2000) Genetic diversity of Vibrio cholerae in Chesapeake Bay determined by
amplified fragment length polymorphism fingerprinting. Applied and Environmental
Microbiology, 66(1):140–147.

Kim JH et al. (2004) Locating sources of surf zone pollution: a mass budget analysis of fecal
indicator bacteria at Huntington Beach, California. Environmental Science and Technology,
38(9):2626–2636.

Lahoussine-Turcaud V et al. (1992) Coagulation–flocculation with aluminium salts: influence
on the filtration efficacy with microporous membrane. Water Research, 26(5):695–702.

Laurent P et al. (2005) Biodegradable organic matter and bacteria in drinking-water
distribution systems. In: Prévost M et al., eds. Biodegradable organic matter in drinking-water
treatment and distribution. Denver, Colorado, American Water Works Association, pp. 147–
204.

Li D, Daler D (2004) Ocean pollution from land-based sources: East China Sea, China.
Ambio, 33(1–2):107–113.

Lipp EK et al. (2002) Preliminary evidence for human fecal contamination in corals of the
Florida Keys, USA. Marine Pollution Bulletin, 44(7):666–670.

Louis VR et al. (2003) Predictability of Vibrio cholerae in Chesapeake Bay. Applied and
Environmental Microbiology, 69(5):2773–2785.

MacAree BA et al. (2005) Characterization of the bacterial population in RO distribution
systems and their ability to form biofilms on pipe surfaces. Presented at the American Water
Works Association Water Quality Technology Conference, Quebec City, Quebec.

McGuire Environmental Consultants Inc. (2004) Final report—Disinfection byproduct
formation in a simulated distribution system: blending desalinated seawater from the
Poseidon Resources, Inc. pilot facility with local drinking-water sources. Santa Monica,
California, McGuire/Malcolm Pirnie.

McGuire/Malcolm Pirnie (2006) Poseidon Resources Corporation corrosion pilot study. Draft
final report. Santa Monica, California, McGuire/Malcolm Pirnie.

Nasser AM al. (2003) Comparative survival of Cryptosporidium, coxsackievirus A9 and
Escherichia coli in stream, brackish and sea waters. Water Science and Technology,
47(3):91–96.

Paul DH (1991) Osmosis: scaling, fouling and chemical attack. Desalination & Water Reuse,
1:8–11.

Paul JH et al. (1995a) Viral tracer studies indicate contamination of marine waters by sewage
disposal practices in Key Largo, Florida. Applied and Environmental Microbiology,
61(6):2230–2234.

Paul JH et al. (1995b) Occurrence of fecal indicator bacteria in surface waters and the
subsurface aquifer in Key Largo, Florida. Applied and Environmental Microbiology,
61(6):2235–2241.

Paul JH et al. (1997) Evidence for groundwater and surface marine water contamination by
waste disposal wells in the Florida Keys. Water Research, 31(6):1448–1454.

Paul JH et al. (2000) Rapid movement of wastewater from onsite disposal systems into
surface waters in the Lower Florida Keys. Estuaries, 23(5):662–668.

Prévost M et al., eds (2005) Biodegradable organic matter in drinking-water treatment and
distribution. Denver, Colorado, American Water Works Association.



                                              17
Reeves RL et al. (2004) Scaling and management of fecal indicator bacteria in runoff from a
coastal urban watershed in Southern California. Environmental Science and Technology,
38(9):2637–2648.

Ridgway HF, Flemming HC (1996) Membrane biofouling. In: Malleviale J, Odendaal PE,
Wiesner MR, eds. Water treatment and membrane processes. New York, NY, McGraw-Hill,
pp. J6.1–6.62.

Sinton LW, Finlay RK, Lynch PA (1999) Sunlight inactivation of fecal bacteriophages and
bacteria in sewage-polluted seawater. Applied and Environmental Microbiology, 65(8):3605–
3613.

Tamburrini A, Pozio E (1999) Long-term survival of Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts in
seawater and in experimentally infected mussels (Mytilus galloprovincialis). International
Journal of Parasitology, 29(5):711–715.

USEPA (1999) Alternative disinfectants and oxidants guidance manual. Washington, DC,
United States Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Water (EPA 815-R-99-014;
http://www.epa.gov/safewater/mdbp/alternative_disinfectants_guidance.pdf).

Vrouwenvelder JS, van der Kooij D (2001) Diagnosis, prediction and prevention of biofouling
of NF and RO membranes. Desalination, 139(1–3):65–71.

Wait DA, Sobsey MD (2001) Comparative survival of enteric viruses and bacteria in Atlantic
Ocean seawater. Water Science and Technology, 43(12):139–142.

WHO (2009a) Boron in drinking-water. Background document for development of WHO
Guidelines for drinking-water quality. Geneva, World Health Organization
(WHO/HSE/WSH/09.01/2; http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/chemicals/en/).

WHO (2009b) Bromide in drinking-water. Background document for development of WHO
Guidelines for drinking-water quality. Geneva, World Health Organization
(WHO/HSE/WSH/09.01/6; http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/dwq/chemicals/en/).

Yang ZB, Hodgkiss IJ (2004) Hong Kong’s worst “red tide”—causative factors reflected in a
phytoplankton study at Port Shelter station in 1998. Harmful Algae, 3(2):149–161.




                                              18
Annex 1: Chemicals of concern for desalination processes


Boron and borate
Most of the inorganic components will be significantly removed in the
desalination process, either thermal desalination or RO desalination, although
some sodium chloride and bromide may be present in the treated water from
membrane plants and possibly from some older distillation plants. In terms of
key contaminants of direct interest for health and the environment, the most
important is probably boron, which can be of significance in RO plants, as the
rejection ratio of boron-containing anions (probably mostly as borate) is less
than that for most other inorganics.

In the fourth edition of the WHO Guidelines for drinking-water quality, the
health-based guideline value for boron (borate) in drinking-water is 2.4 mg/l
(WHO, 2011). This value represents a revision from earlier values and is
based upon a review of the toxicological data and studies in areas with high
background exposures. Although boron is an essential element for plant
growth, it is herbicidal at higher levels, and some plants are sensitive at 0.5
mg/l. The latter is the principal issue for residual boron—that is, its effect as a
herbicide if present in sufficient amounts in irrigation water, particularly in
areas where rainfall is so low as to not cause sufficient leaching of salts from
soils. Acceptable boron concentrations in desalinated water in areas where
desalinated water has significant applications for irrigation may best be
determined by authorities on a case-by-case basis, reflecting costs, end uses,
climate and agricultural activity in the area.

Bromide and bromate
Bromide is initially present in seawater in relatively large amounts (~80 mg/l in
some regions), so even high (e.g. >95%) percentage removals will allow some
bromide, on the order of 1 mg/l to several milligrams per litre, to be present in
the finished water. The concentrations of bromide in desalinated water will be
approximately proportional to the chloride concentration because of similar
removal mechanisms for these analogous anions. Inorganic bromide is also
present in many fresh waters, especially groundwaters and coastal aquifers
affected by seawater intrusion, at up to milligram per litre levels. FAO/WHO
(1988) developed an acceptable daily intake for bromide of 1 mg/kg body
weight; assuming a 60 kg adult drinking 2 litres of water per day with a 20%
allocation of the acceptable daily intake to drinking-water could give a health-
based reference value in the range of 6 mg/l. A similar conclusion is
recommended in the fourth edition of the WHO Guidelines for drinking-water
quality (WHO, 2011).

If ozonation or other similar oxidation processes are applied to waters with
sufficient residual bromide under appropriate conditions, bromate will be
formed at concentrations that will likely exceed the current WHO guideline
value of 10 µg/l (WHO, 2011). Packaged waters produced by bottling


                                        19
distributed desalinated waters derived from high-bromide source water are
often treated by ozonation prior to bottling. This would increase the bromate
levels in the bottled water beyond the concentrations in the original distributed
water if residual bromide is present. Production of chlorine by electrolysis of
seawater will also produce large amounts of bromate. Bromate is
carcinogenic in rats and mice in lifetime tests under high-dose conditions, with
cancers in the kidney, thyroid and testes being observed, although there are
no data available for humans (WHO, 2005a). However, there are strong
indications that small amounts of bromate are metabolized and detoxified
following ingestion before they can reach the target cells (Bull & Cotruvo,
2006). This was not considered in the process of developing the current WHO
guideline value (WHO, 2011), but the next WHO review of the guideline value
will take into account ongoing studies that will generate a physiologically
based pharmacokinetic model and enable a revised risk assessment for
ingestion in drinking-water. As such, the current guideline value probably
overestimates the potential risk at low, environmentally relevant exposures.

Sodium and potassium
Sodium concentrations in seawater are in the range of 10 000–15 000 mg/l,
depending upon the location. Sodium is an essential nutrient, and there is no
health-based WHO guideline value for sodium, which is normally present in
relatively low concentrations in drinking-waters derived from freshwater
sources. The taste threshold is in the region of 200–250 mg/l, depending upon
the associated anions. Daily dietary intake may approach 10 000 mg/day for
some individuals, which is well above the required daily intake. Sodium is
essential for adequate functioning of human physiology, although the
requirement of infants for sodium is lower than that for children and adults,
and high sodium intake may lead to hypernatraemia. This is a problem for
bottle-fed infants and is the reason why sodium levels in infant formulas have
been reduced significantly over time. There have been concerns expressed
about the contribution of sodium intake to increasing hypertension across
populations. A number of WHO Member States are concerned about the
overall intake of salt from all sources, but particularly food, which is the major
source of sodium intake, and are seeking to persuade their populations to
decrease salt intake. In contrast, hyponatraemia can be a serious, including
fatal, acute risk if significant perspiration causes high loss of sodium and there
is inadequate sodium intake from the total diet. It is probable that the
presence of some sodium in drinking-water in very warm climates might be
beneficial for persons engaging in heavy physical activity.

Usually, seawater, brackish water and many fresh waters also contain
potassium. Potassium concentrations in seawater are in the region of 450
mg/l, but about 98% of the potassium is removed in the desalination process.
Potassium is also an essential nutrient, and the recommended daily dietary
requirement is more than 3000 mg/day. There is currently no specific WHO
guideline value for potassium; residual concentrations in desalinated water
are expected to be small and well below any significant contribution to
recommended daily dietary intakes.



                                       20
Magnesium and calcium
Magnesium and calcium are essential nutrients and are present in seawaters
at concentrations of about 1200–1700 mg/l and 400–500 mg/l, respectively.
They are the principal defining components of “hard water”. They are very
efficiently removed by desalination, including NF, but may be added back to
finished water by some processes used to stabilize the water and reduce
corrosive potential, as discussed in Annex 3.

Organic chemicals found naturally in source waters
Naturally occurring chemicals include NOM, such as humic and fulvic acids,
and the by-products of algal and seaweed growth, where this growth occurs to
a significant extent. Such chemicals can include substances that can cause
taste and odour in the final water, such as geosmin from cyanobacteria,
particularly in brackish water; and a range of toxins from a variety of different
organisms, including cyanobacteria and dinoflagellates, that can form
significant blooms, although these are usually intermittent in nature. Only one
of these potential contaminants, the cyanotoxin microcystin-LR, which arises
from freshwater cyanobacterial blooms, has a WHO guideline value
(provisional) of 1 µg/l (WHO, 2011). Desalination processes will significantly
control algal toxins.

The nature of the natural organic molecules is such that most of them have
sufficiently high molecular weights or low volatilities that they would not be
expected to carry over in thermal desalination processes, although the
potential for some carryover by steam distillation remains a possibility. Volatile
organics are usually vented as part of the distillation process. The carryover
would be expected to be small, but for substances such as geosmin, which
has an odour threshold measured in nanograms per litre, this could still be of
concern for the potential acceptability of the final product. Most of the organic
molecules are relatively large (e.g. greater than ~200 daltons) and would be
expected to be excluded by membranes used in desalination; for example,
two of the main marine toxins, saxitoxin and domoic acid, have been shown to
be rejected by membranes used in desalination (N. Voutchkov, personal
communication, 2006). However, low molecular weight polar compounds
might require further study in that regard. Solvent-type low molecular weight
neutral organics can pass through membranes to a significant degree.

There is also a significant potential for anthropogenic contamination of source
waters, particularly seawater and estuarine waters, as a consequence of
discharges from sewage treatment plants and from industry. The
contaminants present at a particular site will depend on both the industrial and
shipping activities that are present in the wastewater catchment or that
discharge directly to sea and the size of the population served. Many of the
substances that can reach source waters are covered in the WHO Guidelines
for drinking-water quality (WHO, 2011) and in an associated document,
Chemical safety of drinking-water: assessing priorities for risk management
(Thompson et al., 2007). A number of potential contaminants reaching
drinking-water supplies from upstream wastewater discharges, such as
pharmaceuticals and hormones, have attracted significant media attention;


                                       21
however, these have been largely shown not to cross desalination
membranes (McGuire Environmental Consultants Inc., 2005). The great
majority of those molecules would not be expected to be present in the
distillate from thermal processes, but there is a potential issue regarding
public perception. Providing reassurance of the adequacy of the barriers to
the consuming public would be an important step in a WSP. There is also a
significant potential for contamination by petroleum hydrocarbons, particularly
in regions where there is substantial oil extraction activity. There is the
possibility that more volatile substances may be carried over into product
water in thermal distillation processes; these include benzene, toluene,
ethylbenzene and xylenes (the BTEX compounds) and solvents such as
chloroform, carbon tetrachloride, trichloroethene and tetrachloroethene.
These processes are designed to vent those gases during processing, but it is
important to confirm that those types of substances are being adequately
removed. There may also be potential for those substances, if present in
sufficient quantities, to dissolve in RO membranes, migrate through the
membranes and thus appear in finished waters. Although there are health-
based drinking-water guideline values for all of these substances, the primary
issue regarding the BTEX compounds (except for benzene) is the potential for
them to cause unacceptable taste and odour at concentrations much lower
than the health-based guideline values (WHO, 2011). Prevention of source
water contamination is the best method to prevent contamination of finished
waters. The assessment of potential hazards and risks from pollutants will
require an evaluation of the sources and types of pollutant in the local
circumstances.

There have also been suggestions of contamination by metals, particularly
mercury, in regions of oil production. Data on actual concentrations in
feedwaters are very limited; however, there is an existing guideline value for
inorganic mercury of 6 µg/l (WHO, 2011). Mercury also occurs in the form of
organomercury compounds, but these substances are hydrophobic, and the
main concern relates to accumulation in aquatic organisms rather than in the
drinking-water.




                                      22
Annex 2: Efficiency of desalination processes for removing
pathogens


Reverse osmosis
RO has been shown to remove bacteria and larger pathogens and all or a
large fraction of viruses (Gagliardo et al., 1997; Adham et al., 1998a; van der
Hoek et al., 2000). High-quality RO processes are good treatment barriers to
pathogens if properly selected and maintained.

WHO provides guidance on target removals for bacteria, viruses and
protozoa, removals that are achieved by typical and enhanced water
treatment processes (WHO, 2011). Removal of viruses by RO membranes
may vary significantly and is a function of the membrane itself as well as its
condition and the integrity of the entire system, including seals. Removals
ranging from 2.7 to more than 6.8 logs, depending on the type of RO
membrane, have been reported at bench scale using MS2 bacteriophage as
the model virus, and Adham et al. (1998b) suggested that the selection of
membranes is an important factor in determining virus removal. Kitis et al.
(2002, 2003) reported removals of MS2 ranging from 5 logs for a dual-
element unit to more than 6.8 logs for a multistage unit. In pilot-scale studies
conducted to investigate the potential of integrated ultrafiltration and NF
membrane systems for the removal of various microorganisms, including
viruses, protozoa (Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts), bacterial
spores (Clostridium perfringens) and bacteriophage (MS2 and PRD-1), Lovins
et al. (1999) observed removals, including those resulting from pretreatment,
ranging from 6.1 to 10.1 logs. This shows that membrane treatment exceeds
the microbial removal attained by other combinations of process units, such
as coagulation, filtration and disinfection of surface water.

Integrity of the RO system
Although RO constitutes an excellent barrier to microorganisms, the
maintenance of that barrier depends on the integrity of the system. Breaches
of integrity in the membranes or the O-rings could lead to the passage of
pathogens into the process water and must be monitored by integrity testing.
Building on bench-scale studies done by Colvin et al. (2000), Kitis et al.
(2002) critically compared three integrity testing methodologies at pilot scale.
They investigated the ability of these tests to quantify virus removal (MS2
bacteriophage) in single-element and two-stage configurations and to
determine the changes in virus removal capability when systems are subject
to different types of membrane and gasket compromising and fouling. These
authors concluded that the loss of membrane integrity decreased virus
removal from 5.3 to 2.3 logs when the compromised unit was placed in the
lead position and from 5.3 to 4.2 logs when the compromised unit was in the
trailing position. Fouling appeared to limit the impact of imperfections by a
combination of cake formation and pinhole filling. Cracking of the O-rings did
not lead to significant decreases in the removals of MS2 or indicators, and the


                                       23
location of the damage influenced the extent of the small decrease in
performance.

Effective methods to measure the integrity of RO membranes should be used
to achieve target removals (WHO, 2011). Currently, conductivity
measurements are utilized, but the sensitivity limits their application to about 2
logs of removal.

Bacteria have been found in permeate samples of NF and RO effluent, and
they can proliferate in discharge lines. This does not mean that pathogens are
not rejected, but rather that sterile conditions cannot be maintained (Taylor &
Jacobs, 1996). As bacteria have been shown to traverse through membrane
defects, membranes cannot be considered as completely effective for
disinfection and are commonly succeeded by a disinfection step.

Thermal processes
When thermal processes are used for desalination, microbial inactivation will
be controlled by the temperature attained and the time the water remains at
that temperature. Typical temperatures to ensure the inactivation of vegetative
cells by humid heat vary from 50 °C to 60 °C when maintained for 5–30
minutes to achieve pretreatment . Spores, endospores and other resistant
forms are more resistant to heat and require higher temperatures (70–100 °C)
held for longer periods of time. Most vegetative pathogens are inactivated
under flash pretreatment conditions (temperature of 72 °C for 15 seconds).
The condensate is unlikely to contain pathogens after the distillation process
because of the killing impact of heat and because pathogens are unlikely to
be entrained. However, reduced pressures are used in some desalination
processes to reduce the boiling point and reduce energy demand.
Temperatures as low as 50 °C may be utilized (USBR, 2003) and might not
achieve the required inactivation targets.




                                       24
Annex 3: Remineralization
In a number of cases, water is remineralized to reduce its corrosive potential
during transmission and distribution. Under these circumstances, it is
appropriate to consider whether the methods used, such as percolation
through limestone, can also increase the concentrations of important
nutritional minerals, particularly calcium and magnesium, in the drinking-
water. While diet remains the principal source of nutrients and minerals,
drinking-water may provide supplemental amounts that could be important for
some people.

WHO expert consultations on calcium and magnesium in drinking-water
(WHO, 2005b, 2006; Cotruvo, 2006) concluded that there was evidence of
dietary deficiency of both calcium and magnesium in many parts of the world.
This would be particularly acute in developing countries and in women, as
well as in some sectors of the population, such as the elderly, who are also at
highest risk of mortality from ischaemic heart disease. Hard water and
particularly magnesium, a component of hardness, have been negatively (i.e.
beneficially) associated with these conditions in a number of epidemiological
studies. Although uncertainties about this association remain, in
circumstances where a supply is moving from a source that has significant
levels of calcium and magnesium to low-mineral desalinated water, it would
be appropriate to consider remineralizing with calcium and magnesium salts.
Additionally, calcium intake may reduce osteoporosis risk, and magnesium
deficiency may also be associated with metabolic syndrome, indicating a
prediabetic condition. However, any decision should be taken in conjunction
with health and nutrition authorities in the light of total dietary intakes of
nutrient minerals. Blending with 1% seawater provides about 15 mg of
magnesium per litre and about 5 mg of calcium per litre to the finished water.
It is appropriate for WHO and other organizations to continue to consider the
importance of calcium and magnesium for protection against ischaemic heart
disease and to determine the optimum levels of calcium and magnesium and
the importance of the calcium to magnesium ratio, in order to provide
guidance as to the optimum levels of addition, if appropriate. In particular,
there are significant considerations with regard to both cost–benefit in
particular circumstances and public perception.

Low fluoride intake is also a potential consideration with regard to loss of
fluoride from bone and reduced incidence of dental caries. A recommendation
of a WHO working group was for a minimum fluoride concentration of 0.2
mg/l, but this recommendation may require examination and confirmatory
studies (WHO, 2005b). The recommended WHO guideline value for fluoride is
1.5 mg/l, but the optimal value is usually in the range of 0.5–1 mg/l, based
upon average ambient temperatures and water consumption patterns. The
appropriate value provides a balance between the benefits of fluoridation of
drinking-water and minimizing the occurrence of dental fluorosis. However,
use of the guideline value to develop local standards should take into account
climate and water consumption, because this value is associated with an
intake of 2 litres of drinking-water per day. This is also a consideration with


                                      25
regard to artificial fluoridation used to protect against dental caries, where this
is a significant problem or there is a significant risk that cannot be addressed
through other means (WHO, 2005b, 2006). Whether to add fluoride to finished
water for dental health is a function of the status of tooth decay incidence in
the location, diet (sugar consumption levels) and the ready availability and
use of dental care in the area throughout the population. These can be
determined by appropriate studies in the area.

With regard to sodium levels in the final water, this requires specific
consideration of potentially sensitive populations, such as bottle-fed infants.

Calcium, magnesium and cardiovascular disease
This issue was examined in detail in three scientific meetings that were
generated by this desalination guidance development process. The first was a
meeting of experts assembled by WHO in Rome in 2003. The experts’ task
was to examine the potential health consequences of long-term consumption
of water that had been “manufactured” or “modified” to add or delete minerals.
Specifically, this was applied to the consumption of desalinated seawater and
brackish water, as well as some membrane-treated fresh waters, and their
optimal reconstitution from the health perspective. The latter is economically
important, because desalinated waters require stabilization by some form of
remineralization, often with calcium carbonate (limestone), to control their
corrosive effects on pipes and fixtures while in storage and in transit to
consumers. The expert group concluded, among other things, that, on
balance, epidemiological studies indicated that consumption of hard water,
and particularly magnesium, is associated with a somewhat lowered risk of
certain types of cardiovascular disease (CVD) (WHO, 2005b). It also
concluded that only a few minerals in natural waters had sufficient
concentrations and distribution to expect that drinking-water might sometimes
be a significant supplement to dietary intake. These included calcium,
magnesium, selenium, fluoride, copper and zinc. It recommended that a
detailed state-of-the-art review should be conducted prior to consideration of
the matter in the WHO Guidelines for drinking-water quality.

That report led to the symposium entitled Health aspects of calcium and
magnesium in drinking-water (Cotruvo, 2006) and a subsequent WHO expert
meeting (WHO, 2006) on the subject. The symposium presented information
that large portions of the population are deficient in calcium and magnesium
and that water could make important contributions of calcium and magnesium
to the daily diet in individuals who had low intakes from other sources. For
desalinated water, remineralization methods that include addition of calcium
and magnesium are more desirable, because they also contribute nutrient
minerals. Seawater blending also adds back magnesium and calcium.

Finally, WHO organized a meeting of experts to further assess drinking-water-
related epidemiological, clinical and mechanistic studies that involved calcium
or magnesium or hard water that contains calcium and sometimes
magnesium (WHO, 2006). A large number of studies have investigated the
potential health effects of drinking-water hardness. Most of these have been


                                        26
ecological studies and have found an inverse (beneficial) relationship between
water hardness and mortality from CVD. The best correlations were usually
with magnesium. Inherent weaknesses in the ecological study design limit the
conclusions that can be drawn from these studies. Analytical case–control
and cohort studies are more useful than ecological studies for investigating
cause-and-effect relationships. Seven case–control studies and two cohort
studies of acceptable quality investigating the relationship between calcium or
magnesium and CVD or mortality from CVD were identified in the literature.
Of the case–control studies, one addressed the association between calcium
and acute myocardial infarction and three the association between calcium
and death from CVD. None found a positive or inverse correlation between
calcium and either morbidity or mortality. Two examined the relationship
between magnesium and acute myocardial infarction, finding no association.
Five examined the relationship between magnesium and mortality from CVD;
although some failed to yield statistically significant results, collectively they
showed similar trends of reduced mortality from CVD as magnesium
concentrations in water increased. Statistically significant benefits (where
observed) generally occurred at magnesium concentrations of about 10 mg/l
and greater. The cohort studies examined the relationship between water
hardness (rather than calcium or magnesium content) and CVD or mortality
from CVD and found no association (WHO, 2006).

The overall conclusion based on identified case–control and cohort studies
was that there is no evidence of an association between water hardness or
calcium and acute myocardial infarction or deaths from CVD (acute
myocardial infarction, stroke and hypertension). There does not appear to be
an association between drinking-water magnesium and myocardial infarction.
However, the studies do show a negative association (i.e. protective effect)
between CVD mortality and drinking-water magnesium. Although this
association does not necessarily demonstrate causality, it is consistent with
the well-known effects of magnesium on cardiovascular function.

Dietary supplementation
The geographic distribution of the nutrients in source waters used for drinking-
water production will be varied and inconsistent, so an appropriate diet should
be the principal source of nutrients. In general, drinking-water should not be
relied upon as a major contributor of significant trace nutrients to daily intake.
However, drinking-water can provide supplementation to dietary intakes in
some locations. Dietary supplementation is widely practised for general
benefit (e.g. vitamin D in milk, vitamin C in drinks, iron and B vitamins and
folic acid in bread and other foods). The only beneficial substances added to
drinking-water in some areas are fluoride with the intent of strengthening
dental enamel and reducing the incidence of tooth decay (dental caries), ferric
iron–ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid complex in some dietary iron-deficient
areas and possibly iodine in some areas with high incidence of goitre in the
Russian Federation.

WHO states that there is clear evidence that long-term exposure to an optimal
level of fluoride results in diminishing levels of caries in both child and adult


                                       27
populations and that fluoride is being widely used on a global scale, with
much benefit (WHO, 2006). However, good dental care, use of fluoride
toothpaste and low sugar consumption are also important dental health
factors. Water fluoridation is controversial in some quarters but generally
believed by the dental community and many public health officials to be
beneficial and without demonstrable risk. Water fluoridation is a matter of
national policy. Seawater is naturally low in fluoride, and the fluoride is further
depleted by the desalination process. Optimal fluoridation of the desalinated
water can be a significant contributor to daily intake and can reduce the
incidence of dental caries in some populations, just as it does with fluoridated
fresh waters.

Consumption of low-mineral water
There have been suggestions that drinking-water with a very low mineral
content (low total dissolved solids) can have a number of adverse effects on
humans, particularly on the gastrointestinal tract, even with a diet that
provides an adequate level of essential minerals (Kozisek, 2005). However,
this hypothesis remains controversial in many quarters. In order to resolve this
controversy, there is a need to investigate this subject in more detail to
determine its significance in a wide range of circumstances, such as those
encountered with desalinated and other potentially low-mineral manufactured
waters.

Desalination has been used in some parts of the world for many decades, and
this experience potentially provides a basis for total diet and water
epidemiological studies of various health outcomes, including CVD,
osteoporosis and metabolic syndrome. Such studies, if properly controlled
and with proper consideration of potential confounding factors, would be of
considerable value in ensuring the safety of desalinated water. WHO is
recommending that before-and-after studies of acute CVD mortality should be
conducted in drinking-water supplies that are undergoing changes in calcium
and magnesium content .

Desalinated water may be used for irrigation, and, as indicated above, high
levels of boron may be toxic to some crops. Suitability for irrigation may also
be affected by the low concentration of ions, such as calcium and magnesium,
which are also important for plant growth (Yermiyahu et al., 2007).
Consideration of specific conditions is, therefore, required if desalinated water
is to be used for irrigation, even when this may be on small-scale gardens,
which may still be an important source of crops at the village or household
level.




                                        28
