                                   WHO/SDE/WSH/02.08
                                        Distr.: Limited
                                         English only




   Evaluation of the H2S Method for
  Detection of Fecal Contamination of
            Drinking Water




            Water, Sanitation and Health
Department of Protection and the Human Environment
             World Health Organization
                       Geneva
 World Health Organization 2002

The illustration of the cover page is extracted from Rescue Mission: Planet Earth,  Peace Child
International 1994; used by permission

This document is not issued to the general public and all rights are reserved by the World Health
Organization. The document may not be reviewed, abstracted, quoted, reproduced or translated, in part
or in whole, without the prior written permission of WHO. No part of this document may be stored in a
retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means – electronic, mechanical or other without
the prior written permission of WHO.

The views expressed in documents by named authors are solely the responsibility of those authors.
                                    WHO/SDE/WSH/02.08
                                         Distr.: Limited
                                          English only




 Evaluation of the H2S Method for
Detection of Fecal Contamination of
          Drinking Water




                   Prepared by


    Mark D. Sobsey and Frederic K. Pfaender
   Department of Environmental Sciences and
       Engineering, School of Public Health
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599
                                        TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                              Page

          Foreword ..................................................................................................................................................... i

1.        Introduction................................................................................................................................................. 1

2.        Fecal Indicator Detection and Testing in Drinking Water: Context, Purposes, Needs
          and Criteria ................................................................................................................................................. 2
          2.1     Drinking Water Safety Plans and Detecting fecal indicators in drinking water ........................ 2
          2.2     Purposes and Needs for Detecting Indicators of Fecal Contamination in Drinking
                  Water............................................................................................................................................... 2
          2.3     Criteria for detecting fecal contamination of drinking water using indicators .......................... 3
          2.4     Microbiological presence-absence tests and their use in detecting and quantifying
                  fecal contamination........................................................................................................................ 4
          2.5     Advantages, disadvantages and limitations of tests for bacterial indicators of fecal
                  contamination................................................................................................................................. 5
          2.6     Needs for and benefits of alternative tests to detect fecal contamination of drinking
                  water................................................................................................................................................ 5

3.        Basis and Historical Development H2S Tests ......................................................................................... 7
          3.1     What H2S Tests Measure and How They Measure It .................................................................. 7
          3.2     Hydrogen Sulfide and the Biogeochemistry of Sulfur ................................................................. 8
          3.3     Sulfate reducing bacteria and H2S tests ....................................................................................... 14
          3.4     Other possible limitations or sources of misinterpretation in the H2S test ................................ 15
          3.5     H2S Test Procedures: Media, Formats and Test Conditions ...................................................... 16
          3.6     Comparison of H2S Tests to Other Tests for Detecting Fecal Contamination of Water .......... 20
          3.7     Determination if H2S Tests Meet the Criteria of an Ideal or Preferred Indicator of
                  Fecal Contamination ..................................................................................................................... 25
          3.8     Potential modifications of the H2S test to improve specificity for H2S-producing
                  bacteria of fecal origin................................................................................................................... 27
          3.9     Costs of H2S Tests ......................................................................................................................... 27

4.        Summary and Conclusions ....................................................................................................................... 29

5.        Literature Cited ......................................................................................................................................... 32


Tables

Table 1   Microbial sources of hydrogen sulfide in water and other envi ronmental media..................................... 9
Table 2   Microorganisms capable of producing hydrogen sulfide .......................................................................... 12
Table 3   Comparisons of Media, Materials and Methods for the H2S Test in Different Reported Studies ........... 17
Table 4   Comparison of H2S and Standard Bacteriological Tests Applied to Various Samples ........................... 21
Table 5   Fecal Indicator Criteria for Fecal Contamination and the Extent to Which they are Met in
          Reported Studies of H2S Tests .................................................................................................................. 26
FOREWORD

Around 2.2 million die of basic hygiene related diseases, like diarrhoea, every year.
The great majority are children in developing countries. Interventions in hygiene,
sanitation and water supply make proven contributors to controlling this disease
burden. For decades, universal access to safe water and sanitation has been promoted
as an essential step in reducing this preventable disease burden

Nevertheless the target of “universal access” to improved water sources and basic
sanitation remains elusive. The “Millenium Declaration” established the lesser but
still ambitious goal of halving the proportion of people without access to safe water
by 2015.

The provision of drinking water of acceptable microbiological quality and low
infectious disease risk requires a number of essential elements within a Water Safety
Plan. Within any water safety plan emphasis is placed on controlling and detecting
fecal contamination of drinking water and its sources. Traditionally, this measure of
fecal contamination has been a bacterium or group of bacteria considered indicative of
fecal contamination.      The measurement of such indicator bacteria of fecal
contamination requires trained analysts, media and other supporting materials and
facilities available only in a microbiology laboratory or the use of a water
microbiology field analysis kit.

Lack of access to laboratories or field analysis kits is an obstacle to the provision of
microbiologically safe drinking water to many communities and people worldwide. In
an effort to overcome this problem, a number of alternative indicators and tests to
detect fecal contamination of drinking water have been proposed and developed.
Some of these proposed fecal indicators and their tests are simple, low cost and do not
require a microbiology laboratory or bacteriological field test kit. Some of these
simple, low cost fecal indicator tests have come into use in actual drinking water
supply practice. Prominent among these is the so-called hydrogen sulfide or H2S test,
which is intended to detect or quantify hydrogen sulfide-producing bacteria,
considered to be associated with fecal contamination.

The purpose of this report is to review the basis of the hydrogen sulfide test as a
measure of fecal contamination of drinking water and the available scientific and
empirical evidence for and against the test as a valid, useful and reliable measure of
fecal contamination and drinking water quality. The report addresses the fundamental
microbiological considerations of the test, including its chemical and biochemical
basis, what organisms it detects and how it detects and quantifies them and the
reported experiences with its practical application to assessing water quality.

In developing this report many sources of data and supporting information were
generously provided by developers and users of the test and others who also have
attempted to modify, improve, validate and apply it. We are grateful to these many
individual and organizations for their assistance. In particular, we gratefully thank the
following for providing reports and other supporting information:
Rajiv Gandhi National Drinking Water Mission, Ministry of Rural Development,
Department of Drinking Water Supply, Government of India
UNICEF, New Delhi


                                           6
Ms. Bettina Genthe, Division of Water Environment and Forestry, CSIR,
Stellenbosch, South Africa

This report has been prepared as part of a programme of activity towards the updating
of WHO’s Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality. Following a process of
development and review it is released in draft form.

This document represents “work in progress” and further information concerning the
H2S test and experience with its application would be welcome. Such information
should be forwarded to:

Dr Jamie Bartram
Coordinator
Water, Sanitation and Health Programme
World Health Organization
20 avenue Appia
1211 Geneva 27
Switzerland




                                         7
1. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND

This report critically reviews the scientific basis, validity, available data and other
evidence for and against H 2S tests as measures or indicators of fecal contamination in
drinking water. The test was originally developed to detect in a volume of water the
production of H2S by enteric bacteria associated with fecal contamination by the
formation of a black precipitate from the reaction of the H2S with iron in the medium.
This relatively simple, low cost test has been studied, modified in various ways, tested
and used to some extent in many parts of the world as an indicator of fecal
contamination of drinking water.

Since the initial report of the H2S test 20 years ago (Manja et al., 1982), many
versions or modifications of it have been described in the published literature. Hence,
there are now many versions of the H2S test and these differ in medium composition,
the preparation of the medium and supporting materials, test format and sample
volumes, incubation time, incubation temperature and scoring of results. The test is
not standardized worldwide and only some versions of it have been subjected to
collaborative testing or comparison with other bacteriological tests for fecal
contamination. The plethora of different H2S test versions and the variety of ways
they have been evaluated in laboratory and filed studies make it difficult to compare
them. The essential criteria of any test to detect and quantify fecal contamination of
drinking water and other waters are used as the basis for evaluating the validity and
performance of various versions of the H2S test and the quality of the data available
for evaluation and validation purposes.




                                           8
2.    FECAL INDICATOR DETECTION AND TESTING IN DRINKING
      WATER: CONTEXT, PURPOSES, NEEDS AND CRITERIA

2.1 Drinking Water Safety Plans and Detecting fecal indicators in drinking
water

An essential goal for the provision of safe drinking water is that it be essentially free
of (at low risk of containing) disease-causing microorganisms. Since the beginning of
the 20th century, the detection of fecal indicator bacteria in drinking water has been
used as the basis of criteria, guidelines and standards for acceptable limits of fecal
contamination and as the basis for judging or predicting the possible presence or
absence of pathogenic (disease-causing) microorganisms. The WHO Guidelines for
Drinking-water Quality (GDWQ) and many other authorities continue to support the
use of bacterial indicator levels and their measurement as a basis for judging and
verifying drinking water quality. However, such fecal indicator analysis of drinking
water as a measure of end-product quality and determinant of microbial disease risk is
only one of many measures and activities in an overall system for providing safe
drinking water. In the updating of the WHO GDWQ, the goal of providing safe
drinking water will be promoted through the development and use of a Water Safety
Plan. This plan includes risk assessment, water system assessment and process
control that examines all aspects of drinking water from its source, through treatment
and distribution (or collection and storage) to the consumer. It uses a management
plan that incorporates Hazard Analysis-Critical Control Points (HACCP). In such a
plan the measurement of fecal indicator presence or levels in water is only one of
several management tools and not always among the most critical ones for process
control or overall collection, production and delivery of drinking water of acceptable
microbial quality. Nevertheless, measures or indicators of water quality, particularly
those measuring or indicating fecal contamination, are useful if not essential tools in
the provision of safe drinking water. The ability to easily, rapidly and affordably
detect fecal contamination in drinking water is still a desirable goal and worthy
endeavor in the overall effort to provide microbiologically safe (low risk) drinking
water.

2.2   Purposes and Needs for Detecting Indicators of Fecal Contamination in
      Drinking Water

Determining the microbial quality of drinking water by measuring the presence,
absence or concentrations of indicator bacteria continues to be widely practiced
worldwide to: (1) meet water quality standards and guidelines, (2) to determine source
water quality, treatment system efficacy and distribution system integrity, and (3) to
inform Water Safety Plans, risk assessments and management systems. In some
countries and regions and for international commerce (commercial bottled water) and
transportation (airplane, rail and other travel conveyances), such analysis of drinking
water may be required by law or governance.

In addition to these purposes and needs, measuring the microbial quality of water for
presence of fecal contamination can be and is now being done for other beneficial
purposes. One such purpose is for community involvement and empowerment in the
provision, management and monitoring of drinking water, including its sources and
treatment. Great efforts are being made to encourage local participation in the


                                           9
provision of safe drinking water and in the oversight or monitoring of its provision by
other responsible parties (governments, privatized water companies, water supply
contractors, water vendors, etc). The ability to test drinking water for fecal
contamination is a powerful and empowering tool for these purposes.

Another useful purpose for measuring the microbial quality of water is educational.
Teaching people about the microbial quality of water and the fundamentals of germ
theory within the context of education and outreach programs for water, sanitation
and hygiene at the individual, household, community and regional levels is a
continuing and long-term goal in the global health initiative. In delivering these
educational messages the availability of simple, practical, accessible and affordable
tests for fecal contamination of drinking water are extremely useful and potentially
powerful tools. In some situations the best tests to accomplish these goals are those
that are the simplest to use, understand, visualize and interpret. This is because such
tests can be widely disseminated both directly by the primary educators and then
subsequently via communications within households, families, schools and
communities and by other means (educational materials such as leaflets, signs and
labels). For these purposes the H2S tests and other simple and affordable tests have
great value and even greater potential use for drinking water supply management and
health education in the water and sanitation sectors.

However, meeting these needs and purposes is served only if the tests are reliable and
provide the correct information. If they are unreliable and if they provide incorrect
information (false positives and false negatives), their potential uses and benefits will
be undermined. Therefore, H2S tests and other simple tests to detect and quantify
fecal contamination of drinking water must be evaluated and judged on the basis of
their reliability and predictability as well as their accessibility, practicality and
affordability.

2.3 Criteria for detecting fecal contamination of drinking water using
indicators

For more than 100 years, bacteriological tests have been used to detect fecal
contamination of drinking water, other waters and other media, such as wastewater
and foods. During this time, there has been an evolution in the bacterial indicators
used and the articulation of the criteria for an ideal or reliable indicator of fecal
contamination in drinking water and other waters (Olivieri, 1983; Sinton et al., 1998).
The current criteria of an ideal or preferred indicator of fecal contamination have been
defined and stated by WHO and other authorities. According to these authorities the
essential criteria of a fecal indicator are the following (WHO, 2002):

•  The indicator should be absent in unpolluted water and present when the source
    of pathogenic microorganisms of concern (fecal contamination) is present.
• The indicator should be present in greater numbers than the pathogenic
microorganisms.
• The indicator should respond to natural environmental conditions and water
    treatment processes in a manner similar to the pathogens of concern.
• The indicator should be easy to isolate, identify and enumerate.
• The test should be inexpensive thereby permitting numerous analyses to be taken.



                                           10
•     The indicator should not be a pathogenic microorganism (to minimise the health
      risk to analysts).

Authorities have identified at least one additional criterion for indicators of fecal
contamination (as distinct from indicators of other sources of microbial
contamination) (Olivieri, 1983). This fecal indicator criterion is:

•     The indicator should not multiply in the environment

The rationale for this last criterion is that the presence and concentration of fecal
indicators should be in proportion to the level of fecal contamination. Hence,
microbial proliferation in the environment could result in the microbe being present at
high concentrations when no fecal contamination (and its pathogens) or very low
levels of fecal contamination are actually present.
Therefore, any indicator of fecal contamination of drinking water and its sources is
best judged according to these essential criteria and perhaps other criteria that may be
relevant for or specific to a particular indicator and type of test for it.

2.4     Microbiological presence-absence tests and their use in detecting and
        quantifying fecal contamination

In addition to the criteria described above, some microbial tests for fecal
contamination of water are based on the presence (P) or absence (A) of the microbial
indicator in a specified volume of water, a so-called P-A test. In the application of P-
A tests to detecting bacterial indicators of fecal contamination in drinking water the
tested sample volume is 100 ml. According to some standards and guidelines, the
fecal indicator is expected or required to be absent (A) in all of (zero tolerance) or
most of (e.g., 95%) the 100-ml sample volumes successively tested over time. In
other (i.e. non – P/A) formats of fecal indicator analysis of water, the concentration of
the target microbe is determined by using multiple and varying sample volumes, each
of which is scored as positive or negative for the test microbe. These data are then
used to estimate microbial concentration by a quantal method typically the Most
Probable Number (a maximum likelihood analysis method). Alternatively, the water
is analyzed for the fecal indicator microbe or microbe group by an enumerative
method in which the concentration of bacteria per unit volume of water can be
expressed as colony forming units (CFU) per unit volume.

The use of the P-A concept and P-A tests for fecal indicator bacteria, primarily
coliforms, fecal coliforms and E. coli, has a history of development that goes back
more than four decades (Clark, 1968). Considerable effort in the form of expert
analysis and judgement went into the development and implementation of P-A tests
for these microbes in drinking water. Much of this effort included consideration of
the wealth of available historical data on the occurrence of these indicator bacteria in
municipal drinking water, based on the frequency of positive results (fecal indicator
presence) in 100-ml volumes of drinking water and the acceptability (or risk) of
drinking waters based on these observed frequencies. These analyses led to current
guidelines and standards for the microbial quality of drinking water based on positive
P-A test results. There appears to be no corresponding analyses and expert judgement
that went into the development of H2S test as a P-A test. Instead, results of P-A H2S
tests have been compared to results for various fecal indicator microbe tests to


                                           11
determine the extent to which the results give the same outcome when scored as
positive or negative results. In the initial report of the H2S test by Manja et al. (1982)
the test was applied to various drinking water samples of several cities in India.
Water samples containing 10 or more coliform bacteria by MPN were subjected to the
new H2S test using a 20-ml sample volume in a P-A format. On this basis, positive
H2S tests were considered unsatisfactory as drinking water because they contained 10
or more total coliforms and were positive for H2S. Since then, others have compared
H2S tests to tests for fecal indictor bacteria using either these or other criteria.

The use of this comparative approach in determining the validity of the H2S test has
never been subject to review of its scientific merit and validity. Considering the
differences in the target bacteria being detected, absent any consideration of pathogen
presence in water, and without formal efforts to determine how well they fulfill the
essential criteria of an ideal or acceptable indicator of fecal contamination, the
validity of H2S tests, the meaning and reliability of interpretation of their results, and
their ability to predict microbial health risks is a matter of concern. Because the basis
of the WHO GDWQ are now becoming risk-based, the absence of a microbial risk
basis for H2S tests raises concerns about their validity and interpretation in judging
the acceptability of drinking water quality. Hence, the application of P-A criteria or
various quantitative criteria to H2S tests as fecal indicator tests is an important but still
unresolved issue. There are no fully articulated public health or risk-based criteria for
specifying the volume of water to be tested in a P-A test format or the acceptable (or
unacceptable) concentrations of H2S bacteria as measured in a quantitative test. In
this report, the use of P-A tests and criteria for H2S tests will be considered in terms of
the validity and reliability of this test format to detect and quality fecal contamination
in drinking water and its sources.

2.5   Advantages, disadvantages and limitations of tests for bacterial indicators
      of fecal contamination

Fecal indicator bacteria generally are present in much higher numbers than the frank
waterborne pathogens of fecal origin, they are easier to detect relatively rapidly by
standard culture methods and the costs of analysis are far less than the costs of
analyses for pathogens. A number of well-developed and extensively tested methods
are widely available for the detection of various fecal indicator bacteria such as
thermotolerant (fecal) coliforms and E. coli in drinking water and its sources. The
historical basis, uses and interpretations of these tests are described in detail
elsewhere (WHO, 2002). Suffice it to say that testing for these bacterial indicators of
fecal contamination of drinking water is still encouraged and widely used worldwide.

Despite their advantages and value, the use of bacterial indicators of fecal
contamination and the methods for them have limitations. In addition, because of the
previously noted lack of accessibility or availability in many settings in many parts of
the world, it has become apparent that there are other limitations to and problems with
the use of the usual bacterial indicators of fecal contamination of drinking water
(thermotolerant coliforms and E. coli). It has been well documented that waters
considered bacteriologically safe (less than 1 bacterial fecal indicator per 100 ml), can
contain sufficient pathogenic enteric viruses and protozoans to cause disease
outbreaks (Berry and Noton, 1976; Craun and Gunn, 1979; MacKenzie et al., 1994).
Other fecal indicator microbes, such as enterococci, spores of Clostridium perfringens


                                             12
and coliphages, can be detected in drinking water when the usual coliform bacteria
(total or thermotolerant) or E. coli are not detectable. Furthermore, there is some
evidence that coliforms possibly including E. coli can proliferate in tropical and sub-
tropical waters. Warmer water temperatures may contribute to the growth of
coliforms, thermotolerant coliforms and E. coli and the greater survival of some
enteric bacteria, notably Salmonella, compared to coliforms (Hazen, 1988; Iverson
and Fleay, 1991; Jimenez et al., 1989; Townsend, 1992). For these reasons,
coliforms, thermotolerant coliforms and E. coli are not ideal indicators of fecal
contamination and alternative indicators of fecal contamination continue to be
considered, evaluated and applied (Sinton, 1998; Sobsey, 2001; WHO 2002).

2.6    Needs for and benefits of alternative tests to detect fecal contamination of
       drinking water

The requirements for laboratory resources or field analysis kits for standard
bacteriological tests for fecal contamination of drinking water are major barriers to
their accessibility in many parts of the world. The need for sterilized bacteriological
materials (media, sample bottles, sterile diluent, culture tubes, bottle or plates,
membrane filters, pipettes or other volumetric dispensing devices, etc), controlled
temperature incubators, the required use of aseptic technique by trained individuals,
and relatively high costs make it difficult, impractical or impossible to perform these
tests in many places. The resources and infrastructure are simply not available to
allow for routine bacteriological testing of drinking water using the standardized
methods for fecal indicator bacteria analysis.

The lack of availability of standard bacteriological tests for drinking water quality
highlights the great need for a rapid, simple, inexpensive test for the microbial quality
of drinking water. This need is especially great for small community and household
water supplies that lack access to and can not afford conventional bacteriological
testing of drinking water. On-site testing using portable equipment and use of
simplified tests, such as the H2S tests, may both contribute to overcoming these
constraints.

H2S tests deserve evaluation as accessible alternatives to conventional bacteriological
tests for fecal contamination of drinking water. Therefore, the potential merits and
beneficial uses of H2S tests deserve consideration, as does the determination of their
reliability and predictability in detecting fecal contamination of drinking water. Key
issues to be addressed are whether H2S tests are sufficiently reliable and adequately
developed as tests of fecal contamination of drinking water to be recommended for
widespread and routine use, and if, so what caveats and cautions should be applied
and under what conditions.

This report addresses the key aspects of H2S tests as indicators of fecal contamination
of drinking water. The aspects to be addressed are as follows:

•     what organisms the tests actually measure;
•     the extent to which test measurements are or are not indicative of fecal
      contamination; and under what conditions;
•     the basis for and likelihood of false positive and negative results;



                                           13
•   the current state of the methodology with respect to reliability, uniformity,
    practicality, availability and cost and
•   the extent to which the tests fulfill the ideal criteria of an indicator of fecal
    contamination; and recommendations for future actions and their directions.




                                         14
3. BASIS AND HISTORICAL DEVELOPMENT H2S TESTS

In 1982 Manja et al. reported the development of a simple method for detecting
evidence of fecal contamination in drinking water. The test was intended to meet the
"…need for a simple, reliable field test for use by village public health workers" to
detect fecal contamination in drinking water. They observed that the presence of
coliform bacteria in drinking water was consistently associated with organisms that
produce hydrogen sulfide (H2S). The test is based on the readily observable formation
of an iron sulfide precipitate on a paper strip (or in the water sample liquid) in a bottle
or test tube, as a result of the reaction of H2S with iron. The test is intended to detect
bacteria associated with fecal contamination due to the activity of these
microorganisms in reducing organic sulfur to the sulfide oxidation state (as H2S gas)
which then reacts rapidly with iron to form a black, iron sulfide precipitate (Allen and
Geldreich, 1975). The advantage of the method is its simplicity, low cost and ability
to be performed in the absence of a typical microbiology laboratory or field laboratory
test kit. Tubes or other containers holding the test materials are prepared in a central
laboratory to be used in the field by minimally trained personnel.

Over the last two decades, various investigators have tested this method and various
modifications of it in different tropic and temperate regions, including Indonesia,
Peru, Paraguay, and Chile, Nepal, and South Africa (Ratto et. al., 1989; Kromoredjo
and Fujioka, 1991, Kaspar et al., 1992; Castillo et. al., 1994; Venkobachar et al.,
1994; Martins et. al., 1997; Rijal and Fujioka, 1998; Genthe and Franck, 1999), and
compared it to traditional bacterial indicators of fecal contamination of water. As will
be described in more detail in a later section of this report, the results of these studies
generally indicate that the method gives results comparable to the test for traditional
bacterial indicators of fecal contamination and is sometimes superior to these test in
detecting fecal contamination, based on other criteria for evidence of fecal
contamination. Furthermore, some studies indicate method worked well as a
presumptive test for the detection of Salmonella (Gawthorne et. al., 1996).

3.1   What H2S Tests Measure and How They Measure It

The H2S method also, commonly called the paper strip method, and the various
modifications of it do not consistently measure the presence of either total coliform
bacteria, specific groups of fecal bacteria (e.g., fecal coliforms) or a specific fecal
bacterium (E. coli). The test is based on measuring bacteria that produce hydrogen
sulfide under the test conditions employed. However, some coliform bacteria (e.g.,
Citrobacter spp.), some other enteric bacteria (e.g., Clostridium perfringens) as well
as many other types of bacteria produce H2S. The test measures the production
(actually, the presence) of H2S by its reaction with iron to form an insoluble, black
precipitate of iron sulfide. Given the low solubility product of iron sulfide, the test
can detect even small amounts of sulfide formation or presence. Any source of H 2S in
the sample can lead to a positive result. Sulfides also can be formed by abiotic
chemical reactions. Many different bacteria, from a variety of habitats, including
many of enteric origin, can release sulfide from proteins, amino acids and other
reduced sulfur compounds by reduction reactions. Therefore, there are many possible
sources of a positive result in the H2S test.




                                            15
In evaluations of the H2S test, several investigators have attempted to identify by
speciation, the bacteria present in positive H2S tests. Castillo et al., (1994) found a
large variety of bacteria, primarily various Enterobacteriaceae and Clostridium
perfringens, in samples giving positive reactions in the H2S test: Enterobacter,
clostridia, Klebsiella, Escherichia, Salmonella, Acinetobacter, Aeromonas,
Morganella. Ratto et al. (1989) found Citrobacter to be a common organism in
positive H2S tests. This suggests that while the test organisms many not be all
coliforms they are organisms typically associated with the intestinal tracts of warm-
blooded animals.       Because some of these microbes may arise from fecal
contamination of non-human origin, the test is not specific for human fecal
contamination. In many settings domestic and agricultural animals and humans live
in intimate contact and therefore, distinguishing the contributions of human and
animal sources to fecal contamination of water is not possible and perhaps not
necessary. Because animal fecal contamination also contains a variety of human
pathogens, such contamination also poses risks to human health if present in drinking
water. Although the intent of H2S tests is to detect bacteria associated with fecal
contamination, there is considerable concern that the test also may detect bacteria not
associated with fecal contamination and its attendant pathogens. Therefore, an
examination of the sources, sinks and transformation of sulfur and the role of
microbes in its cycling is important to understanding the applicability of this test.

3.2   Hydrogen Sulfide and the Biogeochemistry of Sulfur

The sulfur cycle and the role of H2S and bacteria in it. Sulfur is one of the ten
most abundant elements on earth and its various elemental, oxidized and reduced
forms is driven by a biogeochemical cycle, the sulfur cycle, involving bacteria and
other microbes. The key pathways and constituents of this biogeochemical cycle are
shown in Figure 1.




                                          16
As shown in Figure 1, hydrogen sulfide is a key compound in the sulfur cycle and one
of the most abundant forms of sulfur in the environment. Four fundamental types of
reactions are involved in the sulfur cycle: (a) mineralization or decomposition of
organic sulfur (from living cells or of synthetic origin), (b) microbial assimilation of
simple sulfur compounds into biomass, (c) oxidation of elemental sulfur and inorganic
compounds such as sulfides and thiosulfate and (d) reduction of sulfate and other
anions to sulfide. H2S is a direct intermediate in three of these reactions:
mineralization, sulfur oxidation and sulfate reduction, all of which can be mediated by
various microbes.

Of particular interest for H2S production are the reductive sulfur reactions mediated
by various anaerobic bacteria and the decomposition reactions on sulfur amino acids
and other forms of sulfur in biomass. As shown in Table 1, elemental sulfur can be
anaerobically reduced by bacteria growing on acetate, such as Desulfuromonas
acetoxidans, which occurs in anaerobic sediments rich in sulfide and elemental sulfur.
Sulfate reduction occurs in many anaerobic environments by the activity of
Desulfovibrio, other strict anaerobes and by some Bacillus and Pseudomonas species.
H2S also is produced by sulfur respiration with molecular hydrogen, and this reaction
occurs in surface and subsurface geohydrothermal environments (e.g., hot springs,
subsurface and submarine hydrothermal vents, etc.). H2S also is produced by
mineralization or decomposition of amino acids and other organic forms of sulfur in
biomass. This is a widespread phenomenon in many environments and is produced by
many different kinds of bacteria.

Table 1.    Microbial sources of hydrogen sulfide in water and other
environmental media

 Reaction             Conditions      Typical Locations        Bacteria              Comments
 Reduction of         Anaerobic       Anaerobic sediments      Desulfuromonas        Occurs in
 elemental sulfur                                              acetoxidans           fresh waters
 Sulfur respiration   Anaerobic       Submarine                Thermophilic          Occurs in
 with molecular                       hydrothermal vents       archaebacteria        fresh waters
 hydrogen
 Sulfate reduction    Anaerobic       Many: water logged       Desulfovibrio,        Occurs in
                                      soils, sediments and     Desulfomonile,        fresh waters
                                      other anaerobic          Desulfovibrio,        under a
                                      conditions where         Desulfobacter,        wide range
                                      sulfate is present       Desulfuromonasan      of
                                                               d others, including   conditions
                                                               some Bacillus and
                                                               Pseudomonas
                                                               species
 Decomposition of     Anaerobic or    Many but wherever        Many; includes        Occurs in
 organic sulfur in    aerobic         there are dead plants    desulfhydration of    fresh waters
 biomass                              and animals              cystiene to yield     under a
                                                               H2S, ammonia and      wide range
                                                               pyruvic acid          of
                                                                                     conditions

As indicated above, many bacteria can produce H2S in water and in media (soils,
sediments, etc.) in contact with and containing water under a variety of environmental
conditions unrelated to the presence of fecal contamination of water. Therefore, it is


                                           17
possible that false positive results for fecal contamination in H2S tests can come from
a number of sources, including the presence of sulfides of non-biological origin and
from the activities of microbes of non-fecal origin. Because of these possibilities,
care must be taken in interpreting positive results from H2S tests. The water source
and its environmental conditions, especially geohydrological conditions, must be
considered carefully in order to reliably interpret a positive result as being indicative
of fecal contamination.

Table 2 represents an attempt to list and summarize the properties of bacteria capable
of producing H2S. This list is, which was compiled in part from the 8th edition
Bergey's Manual of Determinative Microbiology, is not comprehensive because
hydrogen sulfide production information is not available for all genera or species
within genera (Buchanan and Gibbons, 1974). It is also clear that these cultured
organisms represent a very small fraction of all the microorganisms that occur in
natural waters, soil and in association with plants and animals. They may represent as
little as 1% of the total bacterial population. Because it is well known and generally
accepted that only a small portion of the bacteria in water and other media have
actually been isolated and characterized, it is likely that many other H2S producers
exist that have not been described (Altas and Bartha, 1993). Indeed, new H2S
producers continue to be discovered, characterized and taxonomized (Fukui et al.,
1999).

The list in Table 2 is based on genera that contain members that can produce
hydrogen sulfide. In most cases not all species in a genera have this ability.
However, it makes little sense to expand the list to species because there is still great
confusion about species names and relationships within genera. Furthermore, there
continue to be issues in bacterial taxonomy based on classifications using phenotypic
criteria and those using genetic (nucleotide sequence) data. Additionally, only a small
fraction of the species in most genera has been described. Despite these limitations in
the criteria for listing them, it is clear that many organisms have the potential to give a
positive              response               in          the          H2S              test.




                                            18
Table 2. Microorganisms capable of producing hydrogen sulfide
Name                                       Common Source or Habitat                  Pathogens                                     Capable of Giving Positive
                                                                                                                                   Test1
     Phototrophic Bacteria Gram negative
   Rhodospirillum                          Water- strict anaerobic                   None reported                                 Unlikely- slow growth
        Myxobacteria Gram negative
  Flexibacteria                            Water, soil                               None reported                                 Possible
  Simonsiella                              Mammal oral saprophytes                   None reported                                 Possible
  Alysiella                                Mammal oral saprophytes                   None reported                                 Possible
Budding or Appendaged- Gram negative
  Hypomicrobium                            Soil, water                               None reported                                 Unlikely- slow growth
Spirochaetes and Spirals- Gram negative
  Treponema                                Animals                                   Several                                       Unlikely- fastidious
  Spirillum                                Fresh and salt water                      None reported                                 Possible
   Campylobacter                           Man and animals                           Several                                       Possible
Gram negative Rod and Cocci
  Xanthomonas                              Soil, water                               Plant pathogens                               Possible
  Agrobacterium                            Soil, plant tissues                       Plant saprophytes and pathogens               Possible
  Halobacterium- Archebacteria             Water                                     None reported                                 Not possible - require 12%
                                                                                                                                   NaCl
    Halococcus- Archebacteria              Water                                     None reported                                 Not possible – require 12%
                                                                                                                                   NaCl
    Brucella                               Animal bodies                             Many human and animal                         Unlikely- require CO2 to
                                                                                                                                   grow
  Francisella                              Water                                     Human and animal parasites                    Unlikely- fastidious
Gram negative Facultative Rods- Enterics
  Edwardsiella                             Water, human & animal intestines          Possible                                      Likely +
  Citrobacter                              Water, food, animal feces, urine          None reported                                 Likely +
  Salmonella                               Water, food, animals                      Many pathogens                                Likely +
  Proteus                                  Soil, water, animal feces                 Possible, none reported                       Likely +
  Yersinia                                 Human and animal intestines               Yes                                           Likely +
  Klebsiella                               Widely distributed                        Unlikely                                      Likely +
  Erwinia                                  Plant                                     Plant pathogens                               Unlikely- rarely in water
  Aeromonas                                Animals                                   Possible                                      Likely +
  Zymomonas                                Beer, fermenting fruit                    None reported                                 Possible
  Flavobacterium                           Water                                     Rodent pathogen                               Possible- H2S rare
  Pasteurella                              Animals                                   Many animal pathogens                         Unlikely- fastidious
  Actinobacillus                           Animal membranes and tissues              Animal pathogens                              Likely +
  Cardiobacterium                          Human nose and throat                     Possible                                      Unlikely- fastidious
  Streptobacillus                          Mammal intestines                         Animal parasites and pathogens                Unlikely- fastidious
Gram negative Anaerobic
  Bacteroides                              Intestinal, oral cavity animals           Rumen bacteria- unlikely                      Unlikely- fastidious

1
 Fastidious means microbes require blood, serum, sterols, etc; slow growth = not able to produce response in the incubation period of the test; no
substrates means the needed nutrients are not in the test medium


                                                                              19
  Fusobacterium                   Animal mucus membranes                    Several                Likely + but rare in water
  Desulfovibrio                   Soil, water, sediment                     None reported          Unlikely- no substrates

  Desulfomonas                    Human intestinal tract                    None reported          Unlikely – fastidious
  Desulfobacter                   Soil, water, sediment                                            Possible
  Desulfococcus                   Soil, water, sediment                     None reported          Possible
  Desulfuromonas                  Soil, water, sediment                                            Possible
  Desulfosarcina                  Soil, water, sediment                                            Possible
  Butyrivibrio                    Rumen                                     None reported          Unlikely- fastidious
  Selenomonas                     Animal intestines                         None reported          Possible
Gram negative Cocci
  Neisseria                       Animals- many tissues                     Many                   Unlikely- fastidious
  Veillonella                     Mouth, intestinal track of animals        Possible               Unlikely- slow growth
  Megasphaera                     Rumen, sheep intestine                    None reported          Unlikely- slow growth
Gram positive Cocci
  Staphylococcus                  Human skin, membranes, air, dust          Many                   Likely +
  Peptococcus                     Animals- mostly humans                    Possible               Likely +
  Peptostreptococcus              Animal respiratory and UG tract           Several                Possible

Gram positive Endospore Formers
  Clostridium                     Soil, water, sediment                     Some                   Possible
  Desulfotomaculum                Soil, water                               None reported          Unlikely- no substrates
Gram positive Non-Spore Formers
  Erysipelothrix                  Soil, water, fish, animals                Some                   Likely +
Actinomycetes- Gram positive
  Eubacterium                     Cavities of man and animals               Some                   Possible
  Actinomycetes                   Soil, water                               Both man and animals   Unlikely- slow growth
 Arachnia                         Soil, humans, animals                     Some                   Likely +
  Rothia                          Soil, animals                             None reported          Unlikely- slow growth
  Actinoplanes                    Plants, soil, animal skin                 None reported          Unlikely- slow growth
  Planobispora                    Soil                                      None reported          Possible
  Dactylosporangium               Soil                                      None reported          Possible
  Streptoverticillium             Soil- antibiotic producers                None reported          Unlikely- slow growth
  Thermomonospora                 Soil, animal wastes                       None reported          Unlikely- Thermophilic
Mycoplasmas Gram negative
  Mycoplasma                      Parasites of man                          Several                Unlikely- fastidious




                                                                       20
It is highly likely that almost any water will contain a mixture of organisms of both fecal and non-
fecal origin that can, under some set of conditions, give a positive result in H2S tests. There appears
to be no reasonable way to preclude all of them from being the sources of false positive reactions.
Organisms of fecal origin tend to grow more rapidly than many environmental isolates and are
therefore favored under the incubation conditions of the test. The longer incubation times required
for the sulfate reducers to be important and for most non-fecal heterotrophs to grow would argue for
care to be exercised to keep the incubation times as short as possible, probably no more than 48
hours. However, even shorter incubation times may not prevent the growth and detection of these
bacteria in H2S tests, as will be further documented below. Additional suggestions are made below
for modifications to the H2S media and incubation procedures that may reduce the likelihood of false
positive results from environmental H 2S-forming organisms.

3.3   Sulfate reducing bacteria and H2S tests

Hydrogen sulfide producing bacteria
To adequately evaluate the usefulness of H 2S tests for fecal contamination it is necessary to examine
which bacteria are likely to be important because they produce hydrogen sulfide. As shown in Table
2, many bacteria are capable of producing hydrogen sulfide from organic materials. Some of these
are unique to or strongly associated with fecal contamination and many others are not. A major
group of environmental bacteria producing H2S is the sulfate reducing bacteria group. Sulfate
reducing bacteria (SRB) are key players in the global sulfur cycle. They represent a heterogeneous
group of Bacteria and Archaea physiologically unified by their ability to perform dissimilatory
sulfate reduction for energy-generating processes. In contrast to assimilatory sulfate reduction the use
of sulfate as electron acceptor and its reduction to hydrogen sulfide is restricted to this group. These
bacteria are ubiquitous and occur in a variety of habitats, including marine and freshwaters and their
sediments, soils, biofilms, microbial mats, intestinal contents, termite guts, walls of "black smokers"
and in association with marine worms. Based on 16S rRNA sequences the SRB can be
phylogenetically divided into five distinct lineages: (1) Gram-negative mesophilic SRB (delta-
Proteobacteria), (2) Gram-positive sporeforming SRP (Low G+C Gram-positive Bacteria), (3)
thermophilic bacterial SRB (Nitrospira pyhlum), (4) thermophilic bacterial SRB
(Thermodesulfobacterium group), and (5) thermophilic archaeal SRB (Euryarchaeota).

It might be assumed that anaerobic sulfate reducers are unlikely to be able to produce a positive
reaction in this test. Sulfate reducers occur in freshwater environments, but they are rarely present in
high numbers and usually are associated with the sediments and with geothermal and hydrothermal
environments (Widdel, 1988). However, at least some SRBs are microaerophilic and not strictly
anaerobic, and these bacteria are now known to be capable of degrading a wide variety of substrates,
including saturated hydrocarbons and a variety of aromatic substrates. If the concentrations of
sulfate in freshwater are very low, there will be little substrate for these bacteria to use (Wetzel,
2001). However, where sulfate concentrations in water are high, such as geothermal environments,
sulfate-reducing bacteria could give a positive results in H2S tests. It might be assumed that because
sulfate reducers do not metabolize complex organic compounds, such as those included as substrates
in the test medium, instead requiring short chain organic acids, and other products of fermentation,
they would not grow and give positive results in H2S tests (Kelly and Smith, 1990, Widdel, 1988).
For a positive reaction to occur there would need to be time the system to become highly anaerobic,
time for fermentative bacteria to produce these products and then allow for the growth of the sulfate
reducers. It might be assumed that these conditions are not likely to be achieved in the incubation
times typically employed in H 2S tests (1-2 days). However, it is likely that they could be achieved in
longer in incubation times of 5 to 7 days, which have been employed in some versions of H2S tests
(Widdel, 1988).




                                                  21
Studies on non-fecal, environmental bacteria in an H2S test

Experiments were conducted in the laboratory of Mark Sobsey to determine if mixed populations of
sulfate reducing bacteria (SRBs) would give a positive result in an H 2S test. Sixteen samples of SRBs
were obtained from the microbial ecology laboratory of Terry Hazen, Lawrence Berkeley
Laboratory. The bacteria were soil isolates from a pristine geothermal region in Kanchatka, Russia,
where studies are being done to isolate bacteria of potential value for commercial biogeochemical
enterprises. These bacteria were grown in SIM medium and then tested using a commercial H2S test,
the HACH Pathoscreen Field Kit, which is designed to detect hydrogen sulfide-producing enteric
bacteria. The HACH test cultures were incubated at 29° to 32°, and examined after 24 hours and 48
hours for darkening of the medium or formation of a black precipitate. Of the sixteen isolates, four
produced hydrogen sulfide by the HACH H2S assay, which is a false positive rate of 25%. These
results suggest that H2S tests may give false positive results for fecal contamination by give positive
results for H2S-producing bacteria (primarily sulfate reducing bacteria) unrelated to and not
originating from fecal contamination.

3.4   Other possible limitations or sources of misinterpretation in the H2S test

Another issue to consider in relation to H2S tests is the use of thiosulfate and cystine in the medium
as a possible dechlorinating agent. Thiosulfate, like sulfate, could serve as a source of sulfur for
microbial reduction and H2S production, and cystine can be degraded, releasing H2S. The same
considerations discussed for sulfate reducers also apply to these obligate anaerobes that degrade
amino acids ands other carbon compounds containing sulfur.

Only some of the research conducted to date on the H2S test has addressed groundwater specifically,
and when it has, apparently false positive results have been observed (Kaspar et al., 1992). In ground
waters, particularly those contaminated with human or animal wastes, fecal or otherwise, or those
containing reduced sulfur from natural or anthropogenic sources, there is a high potential for
anaerobic aquifers and the formation of sulfides by bacteria of non-human or non-animal origin. In
many rural areas small-scale industry, animal husbandry, and human dwellings are all contiguous,
which offers the potential for sulfide formation from sediment-derived degradation of organic wastes
from these sources, only some of which are fecal sources.. The rapid reaction of the iron with sulfide
already present in a water sample could produce a darkening in an H2S test almost immediately upon
addition of the sample. For this reason, it is very important that the test procedure include visual
checking for a quick or early positive reaction, after perhaps a few minutes to one-hour of
incubation. A positive result so quickly is likely to mean that the sample already contained sulfides.
Such a result is not readily interpretable as either positive or negative for fecal contamination
because it is not useable as evidence of microbially mediated H2S activity likely to be associated
with fecal bacteria.

Because a black precipitate is the experimental end point of the H2S test, there may be concern for
formation of other dark colored metal salts from constituents present in a water sample. The
Handbook of Chemistry and Physics identifies relatively few iron salts that are black besides FeS.
Some of the oxides of iron can form black precipitates but they are unlikely to form in water samples
as a result of microbial activity and should be visible immediately at the onset of the test if present.
Other metals can react with sulfide to produce a black or dark precipitate, but such precipitates, if
produced after a time period consistent with microbial activity also would be evidence of H2S
production.

Microbially induced corrosion as a source of H2S-producing bacteria in water
Another concern with the H 2S test and its susceptibility to detecting organisms of non-fecal origin is
microbially-induced corrosion of iron, steel and other metals associated with water sources,

                                                  22
treatment systems, conveyances and storage facilities. Microbially-induced metal corrosion is
caused by a number of naturally occurring bacteria and fungi in microbial communities that include
sulfate reducing bacteria, acid producing bacteria and other types of bacteria involved in the
corrosion process (Pope and Morris, 1995; Yasushi, 1998). Microbially induced corrosion as a
source of H2S and H2S producing (sulfate reducing) bacteria is a widespread problem in drinking
water supplies. In terms of vulnerability, small, rural groundwater supplies may be at particular risk
because of their construction and materials, the presence of iron, steel and perhaps other metals at
air-water interfaces, and the presence of risers that are particularly prone to bacterial colonization and
corrosion (Tyrell et al., 1996).

3.5   H2S Test Procedures: Media, Formats and Test Conditions

In the initial development of the H2S test by Manja et al. (1982) the test was applied to various
drinking water samples of several cities in India . Water samples containing 10 or more coliform
bacteria by MPN were subjected to the new H2S test using a 20-ml sample volume in a P-A format.
On this basis positive H2S tests were considered unsatisfactory as drinking water. Since this original
description of the H2S test, several investigators have reported modifications of the test intended to
improve its performance. Such modifications have included: test medium, medium preparation
(dried at elevated temperature, lyophilized, autoclaved only, etc.) sample volume (20 ml,, 100 ml,
etc.), paper use, paper type and paper size to which the medium is absorbed, incubation times and
temperatures, and test formats (presence-absence, quantitative MPN and membrane filter
enumeration). The H2S test conditions used in the original study and some of the various
modifications reported in the literature are summarized in Table 3 below, including some
information on how they were tested.




                                                   23
Table 3. Comparisons of Media, Materials and Methods for the H2S Test in Different Reported Studies
Medium Composition             Paper and Size       Preparation         Dried?/ Conditions             Format/Use Procedures       Samples Tested and             Comments                         Reference
                                                                                                                                   Other Tests
1) 20g peptone, 1.5 g          Tissue paper, 80     Absorb 1 ml,        Yes/50o C                      P-A, 20 ml sample;          S and G, MPN coliform          First reported development       Manja et al., 1982
dipotassium hydrogen           cm2 , folded         place in bottle;                                   Ambient (30-37o C)          tests for samples with 10 or   and use of the H2S test
phosphate, 0.75g ferric                             sterilize                                          incubation; 12-18 hrs.      more TC/100 ml
ammonium citrate, 1g
sodium thiosulfate, 1 ml
Teepol, 50 ml water
2) Ditto 1) above              Ditto 1) above       Ditto 1) above      Ditto 1) above                 P-A, 20-ml sample;          Potable water samples,         Compared to MPN and P-A          Ratto et al., 1989
                                                                                                       incubate at 22 and 35o C    Lima, Peru                     tests for coliforms and fecal
                                                                                                                                                                  coliforms
3) Ditto 1) above              Ditto 1 above        Ditto 1 above       Not reported                   P-A; 20-ml sample;          S (Rx and Cl2); Colilert       Compared to E. coli tests in     Kromoredjo and
                                                                                                       Ambient 26-30oC             and LTB-MUG                    municipal water                  Fujioka, 1991
                                                                                                       incubation; 12-15 hrs.
4) Ditto 1) above, except      None                 2 ml medium in      No/lyophilize instead of       P-A, 20 ml sample;          S , G and mineral waters;      Slightly modified medium         Kaspar et al., 1992
specified only certain                              bottle; sterilize   heat, after autoclaving        Ambient (22-37oC)           compare to TC and FC           and its preparation and test
peptones                                                                                                                           MPN tests                      format (no tissue paper)
5) Per Liter: 400 g peptone,                         1 microliter        Yes/at 50o C for 3-4 hours,   Q, 5 bottles of 20-ml       Various, S and G,              Improved test using cystine      Venkobachar et al.,
30 g K2 HPO4 , 15 g ferric     Same as above        added to folded     after autoclaving              sample volumes each         sometimes diluted; MPN         in medium and a paper strip      1994
ammonium citrate, 20 g                              tissue paper,                                                                  coliforms and fecal            in a quantitative, 5-bottle
sodium thiosulfate, 20 mL                           dried, added to                                                                coliform tests                 (MPN) format
Teepol and 0.25 g/L L-                              bottle,
cystine, pH = 6.9                                   autoclaved
6) Ditto 1) above              Not reported         Not reported        Not reported                   P-A, 100 ml                 Various treated and            Applied to Chilean waters;       Castillo et al., 1994
                                                                                                                                   untreated waters; total        isolated and speciated
                                                                                                                                   coliforms and coliphages       bacteria from positive H2S
                                                                                                                                                                  tests
7) Ditto 1) above              Paper towel, 80      Ditto 1) above      No                             P-A, 20 ml sample,          Distilled water seeded with    Optimized as presumptive         Gawthorne et al.,
                               cm2 , folded                                                                                        Salmonella                     Salmonella Test                  1996
8) Ditto 1) above              Not reported         Not reported        Not reported                   P-A, 100 ml                 Various S and G; total         Tested for comparative           Martins et al., 1997
                                                                                                                                   coliform bacteria and          detection in treated and
                                                                                                                                   coliphages                     untreated Chilean drinking
                                                                                                                                                                  waters
9) Ditto 5) above              Paper towel 50 cm2   1 ml aliquots       No                             P-A, 20 ml sample           Various S and G; Total and     Tested for sensitivity and       Genthe and Franck,
                                                    added to folded                                                                fecal coliforms by MF          specificity with pos. and neg.   1999
                                                    paper towel,                                                                   methods                        controls and in presence of
                                                    autoclaved;                                                                                                   high levels of other bacteria;
                                                    placed in sterile                                                                                             also field tested
                                                    plastic 40-ml
                                                    sample bottles
10) Ditto 1) above             Ditto 1) above       Ditto 1) above      Ditto 1) above                 P-A, 20 ml                  Ground waters                  Isolated and speciated           Naraju and Sastri,
                                                                                                                                                                  bacteria from pos. samples       1999
11) Tested 3 media:            same as above        Add 5 ml            No                             P-A, 100 ml sample,         Feces diluted in sterile       optimize medium, incubation      Pillai et al., 1999
ditto 1) above;                                     medium, place                                      multiple temperatures       distilled water; 100-ml H 2S   time and temperature on
ditto 1) above + 0.125g; -                          in bottle,                                         from 0-47o C, incubate up   test vs. fecal coliforms       samples of feces, but not
ditto 1) above+5 g yeast                            autoclave                                          to 5 days                                                  water
extract and only 15g
peptone
12) 10 g peptone, 1.5 g        None                 Prepare agar        No                             Filter sample thru 47-      Cistern, ground and stream     Compared H 2S MPN to H2 S        Rijal et al., 2000
dipotassium hydrogen                                medium,                                            mm diameter membrane        waters; total and fecal        MF to TC and E. coli.
phosphate, 1.5 g ferric                             autoclave and                                      filter; place on agar       coliforms and E. coli

                                                                                                       24
ammonium citrate, 1 g                                pour into 60x15                                    medium; incubate
sodium thiosulfate,, 15 g                            mm plates                                          anaerobically at RT (25-
agar and 1 L deionized                                                                                  30o C) , 24 hrs.
water, pH 7
13) ditto 1) above; ditto 1) "1)above                "1)above; or      Yes for original                 P-A, 20 ml sample;                                          Compare original liquid and   Manja et al, 2001,
above, except 15g peptone                            single-strength   medium/60o C for 2 days.         35oC; 18, 24 and 48                                         commercial spray dried        2001
and 1g yeast extract;                                powder media,                                      hour incubations times                                      media on Citrobacter and
"1above except 250mg L-                              radiation                                                                                                      Salmonella
cystiene, "1)above except                            sterilization; no
15g peptone and 250mg L-                             tissue
cystiene
Abbreviations: G = groundwater, S = surface water, P-A = presence-absence test, Q = quantitative test, TC = total coliforms, FC = fecal or thermotolerant coliforms, Ec = E. coli




                                                                                                       25
As shown by the data summarized in Table 3 above, various modifications of the H2S test have been
reported. Besides the use of different modifications of the original test in the various studies, the
modifications were developed and evaluated using different samples in the various studies. Some
studies used diluted feces, others used laboratory cultures of specific bacteria, such as Salmonella and
others used field samples of water of varying quality.

Pillai et al. (1999) used feces diluted in distilled water to evaluate medium composition, incubation
time, incubation temperature and fecal coliform bacteria concentration to optimize conditions for a
100-ml sample volume H2S test. They found that lower concentrations of bacteria required longer
incubation times and higher temperatures for H2S detection, results did not require an incubator if room
temperature was between 20-44oC, and the presence of L-cystine in the medium improved detection.
The test was not applied to field samples of water.

Gawthorne et al. (1996) evaluated the H 2S test for Salmonella detection using four species grown in the
laboratory and then seeded into water. They found that detection of as little 5 CFU/100 ml was
possible, longer incubation times (48 hours) increased detection of low Salmonella levels, and the
presence of other bacteria has no effect on Salmonella detection. The H2S test was recommended as a
presumptive test for Salmonella in drinking water in conjunction with coliform testing.

Venkobachar and colleagues (1994) incorporated cystine into the H2S medium and compared the
original H2S test to the one with the modified medium containing cystine using different water sources.
Correlation analyses indicated that the cystine-modified test was more sensitive and less time-
consuming than the original test.

Rijal and colleagues (2001) developed and evaluated two modifications of the H2S test: (1) a MPN
version using replicate sample volumes of 1, 10 and 100 ml and an enumerative version for H2S
colonies on membrane filters in using an agar medium. When both H2S tests were compared to each
other and to coliforms and E. coli in rainwater cisterns of drinking water, both H2S methods gave
results comparable to E. coli.

In studies by Manja et al. (2001) the following media were compared for the H2S test: (1) original H2S
medium, (2) original medium with 250mg L-cystiene, (3) original medium with decreased peptone at
15g and added yeast extract at 2 g, and (4) medium 3 with 250 mg L-cystiene and a the lower peptone
concentration of 15 g Based on detecting low levels of Citrobacter freundii and Salmonella
typhimurium type strains seeded into sterile distilled water at about 5 CFU per sample, medium
formulation 3 (original medium plus 250 mg/L cystiene) was judged to give the best results based on
the numbers of positive samples obtained. In addition, the commercial powder form of the medium
gave better results than the strip medium (liquid medium applied to paper and dried in the lab). It was
concluded that as few as 1 Salmonella was detectable in 20 ml of sample.

As summarized in Table 3, the results of several studies indicate that various forms of H2S test have
been evaluated and are being used. The various forms of the H2S test differ in the following ways: the
medium and its preparation procedures, media format (dried onto paper strip, use as powder, and agar
medium), test format (presence-absence, MPN, and membrane filter), sample volumes, incubation
times and incubation temperatures. If the results of these studies are taken together, it appears that the



                                                   27
addition of cystine or cystiene, longer incubation times (24-48 hours) and incubation temperatures in
the range of 25-35oC give the best results in terms of detecting low levels of H2S producing bacteria.
However, there has been no systematic comparison of the various forms of H2S tests used by different
investigators and no effort to achieve a standard test procedure. Until recently, all of the H2S tests
required the use of media formulated from scratch and applied to paper strips manually. Therefore, the
test media or materials were was not readily available from commercial sources. In India, there have
been efforts to have the medium made commercially and to implement performance criteria for the
commercially prepared medium. In the United States of America one Company has marketed an H2S
test kit for use by small labs and consumers. However, this commercial test is probably too complex,
too inaccessible and too costly to be used in the developing world in response to the constraints in
section 2.6. Research and development studies have been done in India by UNICEF (United Nations
Children's Fund)-India and its partners (Rajiv Gandhi National Drinking Water Mission, Department of
Drinking Water Supply, Ministry of Rural Development, Government of India) to develop, evaluate
and disseminate the specifications for a H2S test and field kit for use in drinking water (Manja et al.,
2001). The test is not advocated as a replacement for conventional coliform and other bacteriological
testing. It is recommended for use by community workers to monitor water supply sources. At the
present time there remain considerable obstacles to the widespread use of the H2S tests because of their
lack of uniformity and lack of availability in a ready-to-use form. Greater efforts to determine the
optimum properties for and test conditions of H2S tests are recommended. Also recommended are
further efforts to evaluate their validity, reliability and predictability as fecal indicators before
widespread production, dissemination and use of either commercial or made-from-scratch H2S tests.

3.6   Comparison of H2S Tests to Other Tests for Detecting Fecal Contamination of Water

In evaluating the performance of the H2S test for detecting bacteriological evidence of fecal
contamination of water, it is necessary to have a basis or reference point ("benchmark") for determining
efficacy. In some studies the basis for determining efficacy has been the use of sterile water seeded
with known quantities of specific H2S-producing bacteria or mixed populations of H2S bacteria in the
form of diluted feces. However, such testing does not address the variability of water matrices in terms
of their chemical and microbiological quality. Testing of natural waters containing fecal contamination
also is necessary. Therefore, many evaluations of the H2S test have been based on performance
comparisons with other, conventional bacteriological tests for fecal contamination of drinking water
when applied concurrently to field samples of water. Tests for fecal contamination of water against
which the H2S test has been compared includes: coliforms, thermotolerant (fecal) coliforms, E. coli,
Clostridium perfringens, Salmonella and coliphages. Because none of these other tests are ideal at
detecting fecal contamination of water, the results of such comparisons are open to interpretation.
However, most investigators assume that if the H2S test gives positive results similar to or greater than
the reference test, its performance is acceptable. The results of a number of comparative studies of the
H2S test against other bacteriological tests for fecal contamination are summarized in Table 4 below.




                                                   28
Table 4. Comparisons of H2S and Standard Bacteriological Tests Applied to Various
         Samples
Water Samples   Bacterial            Bacterial Results     H2S test Results      Agree-   % Disagreement   Reference
                Indicator(s)         Suitable/Unsuitable   Suitable/Unsuitable   ment,
                Compared to H2S                                                  %
                test
Various S and   Coliforms (+ E.      332/337               332/337               88.3     13% and 13%      Manja et al.,
G Waters;       coli in one set of   (coliforms)                                                           1982
India           samples)
Tap water,      Total and fecal      11/9 (TC); 11/9       11/9                  95       5%               Ratto et al.,
Peru            coliforms            FC                                                                    1989
Tap (Rx S),     Coliforms and        1/24 Colilert         2/24                  96       4                Kromoredjo
Banjarmasin,    E. coli              3/24 LTB-MUG                                                          and Fujioka,
Indonesia                                                                                                  1991
Various S and   Total and fecal      Not Reported;         Nor reported;         TC:      11               Venkobachar
G, India        coliform MPN         see % agreement       see %                 89                        et al., 1992
                and original         and                   agreement and         FC:      9
                H2S test             disagreement          disagreement          91
                                                                                 Orig     6
                                                                                 H2S:
                                                                                 94
Undisinfected                        49/170 (TC)           36-40/179-183*        90-92    10-12%           Castillo et al.,
water, Chile                                                                                               1994
Disinfected                          290/113               254-278/125-          71-      23-29%           Castillo et al.,
water, Chile                                               149*                  77%                       1994
Raw waters,                          42/12                 42/12                 100      0                Martins et al.,
Chile                                                                                                      1997
Treated                              50/4                  43/9                  81       19               Martins et al.,
water, Chile                                                                                               1997
Mysore, India   Not Done             Not Done              14/37                 No       No data          Nagaraju and
                                                                                 Data                      Sastri, 1999
Various,        Total and fecal      189/224               150/263               82%      18%              Genthe and
South Africa    coliform MF                                                                                Franck, 1999
Feces diluted   Fecal coliform       Tested but            Tested but            Not      Not reported     Pillai et al.,
in distilled                         reported results      reported results      report                    1999
water                                not quantified        not quantified        ed
Cistern                              0/25 (TC), 8/17       8/17 H2S agar         68       0 TC             Rijal et al.,
rainwater                            (E. coli)             9/16 H2S MPN          TC       32 E. coli       2000
                                                                                 100
                                                                                 E.
                                                                                 coli
Municipal       Fecal coliform       294/392               296/390               90%      10%              Manja et al.,
drinking        MPN                                                              (92%                      2001
water                                                                            for
supplies                                                                         (+)iv
                                                                                 e;
                                                                                 88%
                                                                                 for
                                                                                 (-)ive

As shown in Table 4, when applied to water samples having 10 or more total coliform MPN per 100-
ml, Manja et al. (1982) scored the same numbers of samples suitable and suitable by both MPN
coliform tests (#10/100 ml = suitable >10/100 ml = unsuitable) and the H2S test (not black in 20 ml =
suitable and black in 20 ml = unsuitable). When the water samples were divided into ranges of



                                                                  29
coliform concentrations, the H 2S test gave positive reactions for all samples with 41 or more coliforms
per 100 ml, 25/34 H2S positive for samples with 21-40 coliforms per 100 ml, and 37/44 positive with
11-20 coliforms per 100 ml. H2S positive-samples contained Citrobacter freundii (23 samples),
Salmonella species (6 samples), Proteus mirabilis (2 samples), Arizona species (2 samples) , Klebsiella
(1 sample) and E. coli (3 sample). Only 1 type of H2S-producing organisms was isolated from each
separate sample and the methods of isolation were not specified. No tests were done for the presence of
absence of other, environmental H2S-producing bacteria. No specific tests were done to determine the
presence of viral, bacterial or parasitic pathogens, although Salmonella were detected in some samples.
The authors considered the test reliable, simple to perform and useful for screening purposes where
resources, time, manpower and laboratory facilities are limited.

Ratto et al. (1989) evaluated the original H2S test at incubation temperatures of 22 and 35°C and
compared it to MPN and P-A total coliform (TC) and fecal coliform (FC) tests on 20 potable water
samples from Lima, Peru. The frequency of positive (unsuitable) samples was similar but not identical
for all tests: 9/20 by P-A, 9/20 by H 2S at 35oC, 6/20 by H2S at 22oC, 8/20 by TC MPN and 6/20 by FC
MPN. It was concluded that the H2S test was an equally or more sensitive test than TC and FC tests
and was an ideal procedure for isolated water supplies where laboratory facilities do not exist.

Kaspar et al. (1992) evaluated a modified version of the original H2S test (no tissue paper and
lyophilizing rather than heat drying of the medium) and applied it to 101 water samples. They
concluded that the test was not suitable for control of surface water and dug well water due to the
frequent presence of non-fecal (total) coliforms presumed to arise from degradation of plant tissues and
poikilothermic animals. Dug wells nearly always gave positive results in the H2S test and in the
coliform test, but not fecal coliforms. They concluded that the test was useful for qualitative screening
of piped or treated water systems. However, it was concluded that positive H2S test results must be
confirmed by standard bacteriological tests. The test was considered valuable as an educational and
motivational tool for improved water sanitation, because of the color change and foul smell from
positive samples.

Venkobachar et al. (1994) developed a modified H2S test that included cystine in the medium and was
used in an MPN test with five 20-ml samples. The modified test reduced the test time from 23 to 17
hours, was more sensitive than the original H 2S test, and was well correlated with total coliform (89%)
and fecal coliform (91%) tests when applied to 101 water samples. It was concluded to be simple,
requiring little laboratory support and well suited for routine quality assessment of rural water sources.

Sivaborvorn (1988) tested 705 samples from a variety of waters in Thailand (shallow and deep wells,
rainwater, pond water) by the original H2S test and by coliform MPN. Based on agreement between a
positive H2S test and 10 MPN/100 ml as a coliform or fecal coliform positive, the two tests agreed 85%
and 88% of the time, respectively. It was concluded that the H2S test can be used to screen water for
fecal contamination in the field where laboratory facilities are limited.

Castillo et al. (1994) reported that for 622 water samples tested by the H2S and coliform tests, 168
samples were positive by both tests and 179 samples were negative by both tests. The H2S test
produced about 10% more positive samples than the coliform test but included samples that were
positive for Clostridium spp. The H2S test gave similar results at both 32 and 35°C, indicating that
temperatures in this range are not critical. Bacteria detected from H2S positive samples included



                                                    30
Klebsiella spp., Enterobacter spp., E. coli, Citrobacter spp., Aeromonas spp., Clostridium spp., Hafnia
spp., Salmonella spp., Acinetobacter spp., Morganella spp.. It was concluded that the simplicity and
low cost of the H2S test was applicable to tropical and subtropical potable waters.

In studies of 54 complete conventionally treated drinking waters and their corresponding raw source
waters Martins et al. (1997) found 100% agreement between total coliform and H2S results for raw
waters and 81% agreement for treated waters (Table 3). The H2S test was modified by increasing the
sample size to 100 ml. In treated waters more samples were positive by the H2S test (9) than by the
coliform test (7), which was attributed to the presence of Clostridium perfringens in the H2S-positive
but TC-negative samples. In treated waters the H2S and TC results were significantly positively
correlated (P< 0.0001) Spearman rank correlation test) but in raw waters they were significantly
negatively correlated (P = 0.0008). The authors concluded that the H2S test was a suitable indicator of
potable water quality and treatment and provided greater protection than the total coliform test.

Nagaraju and Sastri (1999) tested ground water wells of Mysore city, India for H2S bacteria using the
methods of Manja et al. (1982) and 24-hour incubation at 37oC. 37 of 51 ground water samples were
positive. From these H2S-positive samples the following 63 bacteria were isolated: Proteus mirabilis
(19), Proteus vulgaris (14), Citrobacter freundi (13), Salmonella spp. (8), Klebsiella pneumoniae (5)
and Klebsiella ozaene (4) were isolated.

Genthe and Franck (1999) evaluated the H2S test of Venkobachar et al. (1994) for specificity,
sensitivity and interference by non-target bacteria using seeded positive and negative samples and
reported favorable results. When applied to 413 water samples from various sources, including ground
and surface water, the H2S test showed 82% and 86% agreement with fecal coliform results when
applied to higher quality (so-called level 1) waters with test incubation temperatures of 35 and 22oC,
respectively. It was concluded that the H2S test was sensitive and correlated with traditional indicator
bacteria, especially fecal coliforms. The test was considered useful for on-site field use, light, easy to
use and portable. The test was recommended for use in addition to current water quality indicators of
microbial quality, and especially where testing would otherwise not normally be done.

Pillai et al. (1999) evaluated various modifications of H2S tests for detection of fecal contamination
using 100-ml volumes of feces diluted in distilled water to contain different levels of fecal coliform
bacteria. The presence of cystine in the medium and higher incubation temperatures 28-44oC vs. 22oC)
improved detection, with lower levels fecal contamination (fewer fecal coliforms) detected faster.

Rijal et al. (2000) compared two versions of the H2S test, a paper strip MPN and a membrane filter
enumeration on agar medium, to each other and to the occurrence of total coliforms and E. coli in
samples of cistern rainwater, ground water and stream water. Similar detection of bacterial
contamination was achieved by the MPN, MF version of the H2S test and E. coli, although total
coliforms were detected in more samples than were either E. coli or H2S bacteria. The H2S test was
compared to total and fecal coliform and E. coli tests to determine efficacy of a solar disinfection
system. Similar results for indicator reductions were achieved by all fecal indicator tests used. The
authors concluded that the H 2S test was a reliable method to measure the hygienic quality of water.

Manja et al. (2001) compared the H2S test (with cystiene in the medium, different sample volumes,
different incubation times and incubation at different temperatures) to MPN tests for coliforms for



                                                   31
detecting fecal contamination in 686 water samples in India. The H2S test gave results comparable to
the MPN test (not significantly different), with concordance in 620 (90%) samples, negative H2S test
and positive MPN test (false negative) in 34 samples (4.9%), and positive H2S test and negative MPN
test (false positive) in 32 samples (4.7%). However, 21 of 23 "false positive" (negative coliform MPN)
samples had coliforms in H2S bottles. Agreement of H2S-positive and coliform- positive samples
increased from 91% at 48 hours to 95% at 72 hours. The H2S test results were comparable (not
significantly different) for sample volumes of 20, 55 and 100 ml. Positive H2S results were generally
obtained in 18-48 hours of incubation at 25-44oC. Use of an incubation temperature below 25oC was
not recommended.

As shown in Table 4, The H2S method has been extensively studied by a number of investigators in
different parts of the world. Such studies include evaluations of the original method, studies on
modifications of the method and field testing, usually with side-by-side comparison to other water
quality tests. In some of these comparison studies the data are limited or have not been subjected to
rigorous statistical analysis. However, the results of most studies suggest that the H2S method detects
fecally contaminated water with about the same frequency and magnitude as the traditional methods to
which it was compared. In general, the sensitivity of the H2S test appears about the same as other tests
for fecal contamination of water, although as already noted, this aspect of the test has not been
rigorously tested in some of the reported studies. Testing conditions and format, sample size,
incubation temperature and incubation time influences test sensitivity. Because these conditions have
differed among the different studies reported in the literature, it is difficult to make consistent
comparisons and draw overall conclusions. However when comparisons with other methods of
detecting fecal contamination were done, the H2S method appeared to have sensitivity similar to the
other methods, based on finding contaminated samples.

In most comparative studies there were always samples that yield positive results for other
microbiological tests and negative H 2S tests, and vice versa. However, such results are not unexpected.
For one, the various tests measure different things and do not always employ the same sample volumes.
Furthermore, when the levels of microbial contamination are low, it is statistically possible for one
sample volume to contain bacteria of interest and for another to not contain them. Where study data
were subjected to statistic analysis most studies found high associations (e.g., correlation) between
fecal indicator bacteria (e.g., E. coli) and positive H2S results. Given the previously discussed ability
of a large variety of heterotrophic bacteria to produce a positive H2S test and therefore a false positive
the observed correlations suggest that in most natural and treated waters the majority of the H2S
producers come from organisms associated with the human or animal digestive tract. A false positive
is less likely to lead to a risk of disease because it would result in the suspect water either not being
used or subject to additional testing.
Of great concern with the H2S test as with other fecal indicator tests is the potential for false negatives;
that is, not detecting fecal contamination when it is present. In this case the test does not identify water
that is unsafe and the water could be consumed, leading to pathogen ingestion and to disease. The
method, as with the various bacteriological tests, does not detect viruses or parasites. Testing of
drinking water for the many viruses and parasites of concern is still impractical and unaffordable and
still not done on a routine basis in most countries and regions. However, the H2S test detects bacteria
other than coliforms that are associated with fecal contamination, including Clostridium perfringens.
Clostridium perfringens is one of the more resistant indicators of fecal contamination and can be found
in drinking waters when no coliforms can be found. Therefore, it is possible for the H2S test to give a



                                                    32
positive result when fecal contamination is present even if no coliforms are present. Such findings have
been observed in some comparative studies between the H 2S test and other bacteriological tests.

3.7   Determination if H2S Tests Meet the Criteria of an Ideal or Preferred Indicator of Fecal
      Contamination

In Table 5 below are listed the essential criteria of an ideal or preferred indicator of fecal contamination
of drinking water and other waters and the extent to which these criteria were addressed and fulfilled in
previously published studies on the H2S test as a method to detect fecal contamination. It is apparent
from this compilation of data that most of the key criteria for fecal indicators of water quality were not
investigated in the studies reported in the literature to date. This lack of data on the extent to which
H2S tests fulfill the essential criteria of an indicator is a major concern. This is because the test has
been in existence for two decades, it has been repeatedly modified, tested and field applied in many
parts of the world, it is now widely promoted by some scientists and other authorities, and yet it has
never been subjected to critical testing for its ability to fulfill or meet the essential criteria of a fecal
indicator of drinking water quality.




                                                     33
 Table 5. Fecal Indicator Criteria for Fecal Contamination and The Extent to Which they are Met in Reported Studies of H2S Tests

Reference                     Absent in non-fecally        Present in fecally contaminated            Outnumber               Detects Non-patho-genic Bacteria   Respond to environ-   Respond to       Ease   Cost         No envir-
                              contaminated water           water                                      pathogens                                                  mental condi-tions    treatment        of     (Inex-pen-   onmen-
                                                                                                                                                                 like patho-gens       like             Use    sive?)       Tal multi-
                                                                                                                                                                                       pathogens                            Plica-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Tiom
Manja et al., 1982            T/ by comparison to other    T/ by comparison to other indicators of fecalNT
                                                                                                         contamination        T/Some detected are non-           NT                    NT               NT     NT           NT/
                              indicators of fecal                                                                             pathogenic                                                                                    M for some
                              contamination
Ratto et al., 1989            T/Yes, by comparison to      T/Yes,                                     NT                      T/Some detected are non-           NT                    NT               NT     NT           NT
                              other indicators of fecal    By comparison to other indicators of                               pathogenic
                              contamination                fecal contamination
Kromoredjo and Fujioka,       T, Yes, by comparison to     T/ by comparison to other indicators of    NT                      NT                                 NT                    NT               NT     T/ by cost   NT
1991                          other indicators of fecal    fecal contamination                                                                                                                                 compariso
                              contamination                                                                                                                                                                    n
Kaspar et al., 1992           T/ by comparison to other    T/Yes, by comparison to other              NT                      T/Some are                         NT                    NT               T/     NT           NT/
                              indicators of fecal          indicators of fecal contamination                                                                                                            Yes*
                              contamination
Venkobachar, 1994             T/Yes, by comparison to      T/Yes, by comparison to other              NT                      T/Some detect-ed are non-          NT                    NT               T/     NT           NT
                              other indicators of fecal    indicators of fecal contamination                                  pathogenic bacteria                                                       Yes
                              contamination

Castillo et al., 1994         T/Yes, by comparison to      T/Yes, by comparison to other              NT                      NT                                 NT                    NT               NT     NT           NT
                              other indicators of fecal    indicators of fecal contamination
                              contamination
Gawthorne et al., 1997        NT/                          T/Yes, by comparison to levels of          NT                      NT                                 NT                    NT               NT     NT           NT
                              Lab studies on seeded        Salmonella in seeded waters
                              water
Martins et al., 1997          T/Yes, by comparison to      T/Yes,                                     NT                      NT                                 NT                    Y, Indirect T;   NT     NT           NT
                              other indicators of fecal    By comparison to other indicators of                                                                                        results
                              contamination                fecal contamination                                                                                                         compared for
                                                                                                                                                                                       Rx'd and
                                                                                                                                                                                       UnRx'ed
                                                                                                                                                                                       water
Genthe and Franck, 1999       T/                           T/                                         NT                      NT                                 NT                    NT               T/     T/           NT
                              Yes, by comparison to        Yes, by comparison to other indicators                                                                                                       Yes    Yes, by
                              other indicators of fecal    of fecal contamination                                                                                                                              cost
                              contamination                                                                                                                                                                    compariso
                                                                                                                                                                                                               n
Nagaraju and Sastri, 1999     NT                           NT                                         NT                      T/                                 T/                    NY               Yes    NT           NT
                                                                                                                              Yes                                Yes
Rijal et al., 2000            T/yes, by comparison to      T/yes, by comparison to other              NT                      T/Some detected are non-           NT                    T/ Yes,          NT     NT           NY
                              other indicators of fecal    indicators of fecal contamination                                  pathogenic                                               compared
                              contamination                                                                                                                                            H2S, TC and
                                                                                                                                                                                       FC tests on
                                                                                                                                                                                       solar
                                                                                                                                                                                       pasteurized
                                                                                                                                                                                       waters
Manja et al., 2001            T/                           T/                                         NT                      NT                                 NT                    NT               NT     NT           NT
                              Yes, comparison to other     Yes, by comparison to other indicators
                              indicators of fecal          of fecal contamination
                              contamination

 Abbreviations: T = tested; NT = not tested by objective or specified measures or methods




                                                                                                                         34
3.8    Potential modifications of the H2S test to improve specificity for H2S-
      producing bacteria of fecal origin

There are several modifications to the H 2S test that could be considered in an effort to
make it more specific for organisms of fecal origin and to reduce the probability of
organisms of non-fecal origin giving a positive response. These modifications fall
into two main categories: modifications of the medium itself and modifications of the
incubation conditions.

The inclusion of bile salts such as sodium deoxycholate or taurocholate in the medium
is a common method for inhibiting the growth of many microorganisms. These
surfactants can cause the lysis of sensitive cells. Because human and animal intestinal
flora has to tolerate these materials in the intestine they tend to be less sensitive to
them. Indeed, the use of bile salts is common in bacteriological media to detect
Enterobacteriaeceae. Archebacteria and many eubacteria are sensitive, while
Salmonella and E. coli are not (Gerhardt et al., 1994; Kamekura et al., 1988). Gram
negative organisms are generally insensitive, while gram positives other than Group D
streptococci are sensitive. Therefore, the inclusion of bile salts at 0.5% would
eliminate the bacilli, the archebacteria and most other soil organisms and prevent
them from producing a positive result. However, this modification also may decrease
the detection of Clostridium perfringens, which can be of fecal origin and is
detectable by current versions of the medium. The extent to which the addition of a
bile salt would inhibit C. perfringens detection by its H2S production is uncertain and
would have to be investigated.

Several modifications of the incubation procedure are suggested in an effort to
increase specificity for bacteria of fecal origin. One modification to consider is
aeration of the medium by vigorous shaking prior to incubation in an effort to make
the system aerobic. This would slow or preclude the growth of many anaerobic or
microaerophilic organisms, some of which (e.g., the sulfate reducing bacteria) may
give false positives. Additionally, elevated incubation temperatures would be
advantageous in reducing the growth of some soil and water organisms of natural
origin. Some of these environmental bacteria generally do not grow as well at
temperature above 30o C, in contrast to bacteria of human or animal origins.
However, elevated incubation temperature may not be an effective way to control the
growth of thermotolerant or thermophilic bacteria of natural origin, such as those
from geohydrothermal environments because these bacteria are adapted to higher
temperatures. Furthermore, higher incubation temperatures such as 35o C will make
the test potentially more difficult to apply in the field and in settings other than
microbiology laboratories because an incubator may be required.

3.9    Costs of H2S Tests

It was not possible to find detailed breakdowns of estimated costs for H 2S tests, but all
reports indicate lower costs than conventional bacteriological tests for fecal
contamination. Several investigators have listed the costs of H2S tests and compared
them to the costs of standard bacteriological tests for fecal contamination of water.

Kromoredjo and Fujioka (1991) reported that the cost to analyze one sample by a 5-
tube MPN test was: US$6.50 by commercially available, defined substrate


                                           35
technology test, US$1.60 by fecal coliform test using lauryl tryptose broth (LTB) plus
4-methylumbelliferryl-Beta-D-glucuronide (MUG) and $US0.62 using the H2S test.
They noted that the relative costs for the commercially available tests would be even
higher because its high shipping costs were not included and the tubs would be
discarded after their use, while the shipping costs for LTB-MUG fecal coliform and
H2S tests would be comparatively low and the tubes used in these tests would be
reused up to five times. Kaspar et al. (1992) indicated that the cost of the H2S test
was much lower than the costs of common microbiological tests, such as those for
coliforms, but detailed costs estimates and comparisons were not provided. However,
they indicated that the costs of materials for an H2S test were about US$0.25 per unit.
Genthe and Franck (1999) stated that the cost of the H2S test was inexpensive. They
listed the approximate costs of the H2S test at <5.00 South African Rand or ZAR
<US$0.44). The estimated costs of materials for the membrane filter (MF) fecal
coliform test were about 7.00 ZAR or about US$0.61 and for the defined substrate
technology tests, they were about 30-50 ZAR or US$2.60-4.35). The costs for the
H2S test did not include material preparation time and the costs for the fecal coliform
MF test did not include media preparation and carrying our filtration.

Overall, these data indicate that the H2S test costs are relatively low compared to
those for standard bacteriological tests, either prepared in one's lab or commercially
purchased as ready to use. However, a more formal analysis of H2S test costs listing
all of the cost elements and methods of cost calculation is recommended. It should be
recalled that the costs of analyses may represent a small fraction of total costs if staff
time and travel costs are taken into account.




                                           36
4. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS

The H2S method in various modifications has been tested in many places in different
waters and produced results reported as indicating it to be a reasonable approach for
testing treated and untreated waters for fecal contamination. It offers advantages
including low cost (estimated at 20% of the cost of coliform assays), simplicity and
ease of application to environmental samples.

It has not been suggested as a replacement for other testing procedures for fecal
contamination of water.

Because it has not been adequately tested in regions with temperate and cold climates
nothing can be said about its applicability in those regions.

Because it offers the potential for testing water in places where other testing methods
are not feasible, its promotion, dissemination and use have been encouraged by many
developers and evaluators. However, as is apparent from the review and analyses
presented here, H2S tests have not been evaluated and judged according to the
generally accepted criteria of an indicator of fecal contamination, except perhaps
indirectly and by comparison. That is, no systematic efforts have been made to
determine directly if H2S tests fulfill the essential criteria for an indicator of fecal
contamination in treated and untreated drinking water and its sources. Instead,
previous studies have attempted to validate and evaluate the test against on the basis
of the detection of established fecal indicator bacteria and certain pathogens, notably
Salmonella, in experimentally seeded and in field samples of treated and untreated
water. If there is adequate agreement (correlation, concordance, etc.) in the
classification or quality determination of water based on a standard or generally
accepted fecal indicator and an H2S test, the H2S test is taken to be an acceptable
indicator of fecal contamination. In some studies these measures of agreement have
been further supported by the isolation and identification of bacteria of fecal origin
from H2S-positive cultures. The criteria for determining agreement between
outcomes for H2S and fecal indicator bacteria tests in comparison studies are not
uniform among the various studies reported and often have not been explicitly stated.
In some studies these comparisons are supported by statistical analyses for
correlations or other associations and in other studies they are not. In some studies,
the comparative criteria include efforts to determine sensitivity (lower limit of
detection) and specificity (ability to detect specific bacteria or bacterial groups). In all
of the reported studies, no efforts have been made to determine if the H2S tests detect
non-fecal bacteria capable of producing hydrogen sulfide, such as sulfate reducing
bacteria. A preliminary study conducted in the laboratory of one of us (Mark Sobsey)
showed that a standard, commercially available H2S test detects sulfate-reducing
bacteria of non-fecal origin in 25% of the samples tested.

Because of these deficiencies, it is not possible to widely and unequivocally
recommend H2S tests for the determination of fecal contamination in drinking water.
There remain too many uncertainties about the reliability, specificity and sensitivity of
the test for detecting fecal contamination of drinking water and its sources.

Despite this lack of formal analytical support for and validation or verification of H2S
tests, there are many studies reporting relatively good agreement in the classification


                                            37
of drinking waters as suitable or unsuitable based on the results of H2S tests in
comparison with fecal indicator bacteria tests. Hence, there is substantial empirical
evidence showing that H2S tests and fecal indicator bacteria tests may provide
information on the suitability or unsuitability of drinking water with respect to fecal
contamination. For this reason, there are good reasons to support the further
investigation and use of H2S tests under certain circumstances and in certain settings.
In particular, if the alternative to H 2S testing is no water quality testing at all for fecal
contamination, the H2S test is recommended for use, with caution. The caution
concerns possible false positive results due to H2S presence or formation in water
from sources other than fecal contamination. In addition, H2S testing also is
recommended with caution for educational and motivational purposes to promote
water sanitation and hygiene education in outreach and dissemination programs.
Again, it must be established or verified that the test will give correct results with
respect to water classification as suitable or unsuitable when applied to the treated or
untreated drinking waters being tested.

Before its adoption for widespread use standardization of the H2S test procedure as
well as conditions and precautions for its use and interpretation based on an improved
evidence base will be necessary. The studies conducted to date have used a variety of
different media compositions, test strips in some cases, general darkening of the
medium in others and even membrane filters and agar media in yet others. A variety
of different incubation times and temperatures have also been used. A number of
investigators have addressed incubation time and temperature issues that can result in
false negatives if the appropriate choices are not made (temperatures too low or
incubation times too short). Some have suggested the addition of cystine or cysteine
to the medium and supplementing the medium with yeast extract and deoxycholate.
There is likely to be merit in many of these suggestions.

Empirically, the test appears to detect mostly organisms of fecal origin (human or
animal), and therefore, it may have value. There is no reasonable way, however, to
preclude a false positive in samples containing other H2S producers, nor is there an
easy and expedient way to determine what those organisms may be. The ability to
form H2S is too widely distributed within the microbial world for it to be an
unequivocal test of fecal contamination in water. It also cannot discriminate between
organisms of human or animal origin, as long as they produce H2S. Most of the
problems likely to be encountered with H2S tests are false positives rather than false
negatives.    Such misclassification of drinking water errs on the side of safety.
However, it can result in the rejection of water that is acceptable with respect to fecal
contamination, and it may prompt efforts to seek or provide alternative or further
improved drinking waters. Such efforts in effect increase the costs of providing safe
water. If a false positive leads to more testing or the rejection for use of the water for
drinking, than alternative sources must be sought and this may be more expensive.

Inadequate attention has been given to the use and reliability of the method for testing
ground waters. In many parts of the developing world ground water is the only source
of drinking water. In groundwater, there is the strong possibility of sulfides being
present due to natural geohydrological sources and to anthropogenic impacts other
than fecal contamination, both of which are false positive results. The use of the H2S
test in ground waters needs to be further assessed, as does modification of the



                                             38
procedure, as suggested above, to allow determination of false positives due to sulfide
and non-fecal sulfide-producing bacteria in the sample water.

In assessing the applicability of the H2S test in presence/absence format,
the limitations of P/A testing should be recalled. P/A testing was
developed for and is applicable where most tests provide a negative result.
Where a significant proportion of tests provide a positive reaction
quantitative testing is preferred in order to determine relative health risk
and therefore relative priority of need for correction, such as by improved
or greater treatment or by finding a higher quality source water for
supply.

Water quality testing alone is an inadequate response to the challenges of
 ensuring water safety. Occasional tests conducted on a water supply may
    provide a false sense of security as water quality can vary widely and
rapidly. For these reasons water quality testing should be accompanied by
  verification of the state of the source or supply, for instance, by sanitary
     inspection as described in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking-water
   Quality Volume 3. As previously indicated, end-product testing is now
only one of several key management tools in the provision of safe drinking
  water under the forthcoming Guidelines from Drinking Water Quality.
   The development, implementation and use of a Water Safety Plan that
   considers the quality and overall management of drinking water from
 source to consumer is the goal for all water supplies. In such a plan, now
  including hazard analysis-critical control points (HACCP), endproduct
                  testing is not a critical control point (CCP).




                                          39
                       5. LITERATURE CITED

Allen, M.J., E.E. Geldreich. 1975. Bacteriological criteria for ground water quality.
Ground Water 13:5-52.

Atlas, R.M. and R. Bartha (1993) Microbial Ecology. Fundamentals and Applications,
Benjamin/Cummings Publishing Company, Redwood City

Buchanan, R.E. and N.E. Gibbons (1974) Bergey's Manual of Determinative
Bacteriology, 8th edition, Williams and Wilkins, Baltimore.

Berry, S.A., and B.G. Noton. 1976. Survival of bacteriophages in seawater. Water
Res. 10:323- 327.

Castillo, G., R. Duarte, Z. Ruiz, M.T. Marucic, B. Honorato, R. Mercado, V. Coloma,
V. Lorca, M.T. Martins, and B.J. Dutka. 1994. Evaluation of disinfected and
untreated drinking water supplies in Chile by the H2S paper strip test. Water
Research 28:1765-1770.

Clark, J.A. (1968) A presence-absence (P/A) test providing sensitive and inexpensive
detection of coliforms, fecal coliforms and faecal streptococci in municipal drinking
water supplies. Can. J. Microbiol., 14:13-18.

Craun, G.F., and R.A. Gunn. 1979. Outbreaks of waterborne disease in the United
States 1975-1976. JAWWA. 71:422-428.

Fukui M, Teske A, Assmus B, Muyzer G, Widdel F. (1999) Physiology, phylogenetic
relationships, and ecology of filamentous sulfate-reducing bacteria (genus
Desulfonema)
Archives of Microbiology. 172(4):193-203.

Gawthorne, T., R. Gibbs, K Mathew, and G. Ho. H2S papers as presumptive tests for
Salmonella contamination in tropical drinking water. Water Sci. Technol. 34:187-
194.

Gerhardt, P., R.G.E. Murray, W.A. Woods, and N.R. Krieg. 1994. Methods for
General and Molecular Bacteriology. ASM Press, Washington, D.C.

Genthe, B. and M. Franck (1999) A tool for Assessing Microbial Quality in Small
Community Water Supplies: An H2S Strip Test. WRC Report No. 961/1/99, 33
pages. to: Water Research Commission. by: Division of Water, Environment and
Forestry Technology, CSIR, Stellenbosch, South Africa.

Hazen, T.C. (1988) Fecal coliforms as indicators in topical waters: a review. Tox.
Assess., 3:461-477.

Iverson, J.B., and B.J Fleay. 1991. Serovars of Salmonella isolated from humans,
animals, waters and effluents in natural and disturbed environments in western
Australia. Proceedings of the 14th Federal Convention, Australian Water and
Wastewater 2:435-441.


                                         40
Jimenez, L, I. Munoz, T. Toranzos, and T.C. Hazen. 1989. Survival and activity of
Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli in tropical freshwater. J. Appl.
Bacteriol. 67:61-69.

Kaspar, P, I. Guillen, D. Revelli, T. Meza, G. Velazquez, H. Mino de Kaspar, L.
Pozolli, C. Nunez and G. Zoulek (1992) Evaluation of a simple screening test for the
quality of drinking water systems. Trop. Med. Parasitol., 43: 124-127.

Kamekura, M., D. Oesterhelt, R. Wallace, P. Anderson, and D.J. Kushner. 1988.
Lysis of halobacteria in Bacto-Peptone by bile acids. Appl. Environ. Microbiol.
54:990-995.


Kaspar, P, I. Guillen, D. Rivelli, G. Valasquez, H.M. De Kaspar, L. Pozzoli, C. Nunez
and G. Zoulek (1992) Evaluation of a simple screening test for the quality of drinking
water systems. Tropical Medicine and Parasitology, 43(2): 124-127.

Kelly, D.P., and N.A. Smith. 1988. Organic sulfur compounds in the environment:
biogeochemistry, microbiology, and ecological aspects. Adv. Microbiol Ecol.
11:345-386.

Kromoredjo, P., and R. Fujioka. 1991. Evaluating three simple methods to assess the
microbial quality of drinking water in Indonesia. Environmental Technol and Water
Quality 6:259-270.

MacKenzie, W.R., N.J. Hoxie, M.E. Proctor, M.S. Gradus, K.A.Blair, D.E. Peterson,
J.J. Kazmierczak, D.G. Addis, K.R. Fox, J.B. Rose, and J.P. Davis. 1994. A massive
outbreak in Milwaukee of Cryptosporidium infection transmitted through the public
water supply. The New England J. Medicine 331:161-167.

Manja, K.S., M.S. Maurya, and K.M. Rao. 1982. A simple field test for the detection
of faecal pollution in drinking water. Bulletin of the World Health Organization.
60:797-801.

Manja, K.S., R. Sambasiva, K.V. Chandrashekhara, K.J. Nath, S. Dutta, K. Gopal, L.
Iyengar S.S. Dhindsa and S.C. Parija (2001) Report of Study on H2S Test for
Drinking Water, 96 Pages, UNICEF, New Delhi.

Martins, M., G. Castillo, and B.J. Dutka. 1997. Evaluation of drinking water
treatment plant efficiency in microorganism removal by the coliphage, total coliform
and H 2S paper strip tests. Water Sci. Technol. 35:403-407.

Nagaraju. D and J.C.V. Sastri (1999) Confirmed faecal pollution to bore well waters
of Mysore city. Environmental Geology, 38(4): 322-326.

Olivieri, VP. (1983) Measurement of microbial quality. In: Assessment of
Microbiology and Turbidity Standards for Drinking Water. P.S. Berger and Y.
Argaman, Eds., EPA Report No. EPA 570-9-83-001. Office of Drinking Water.
Washington, D.C.


                                         41
Pillai, J. K Mathew, R. Gibbs, and G. Ho. 1999. H2S paper strip method- A
bacteriological test for faecal coliforms in drinking water at various temperatures.
Water Sci. Technol. 40:85-90.

Popp, D.H. and E.A. Morris (1995) Some experiences with microbially influenced
corrosion of pipelines. Materials Performance, pages 23-28, May.

Ratto, A., B.J. Dutka, C. Vega, C. Lopez, A. El-Shaarawi (1989) Potable water
safety assessed by coliphage and bacterial tests. Water Research 23:253-255.

Rijal, G.K., R.S. Fujioka and C.A. Ziel (2000) Evaluation of the hydrogen sulfide
bacteria test: A simple test to determine the hygienic quality of drinking water.
Abstracts of the General Meeting of the American Society for Microbiology. Poster
Presentation (unpublished) Abstract Q354, Page 622. Amer. Soc. Microbiol.,
Washington, DC.

Sinton, L.W., R.K. Finlay and D.J. Hannah (1998) Distinguishing human from
animal faecal contamination in water: A review. New Zealand Journal of Marine &
Freshwater Research. 32(2): 323-348

Sivaborvorn (1988) On Development of Simple Tests for Bacteriological Quality of
Drinking Water (Water Quality Control Southeast Asia), Department of Sanitary
Engineering, Mahidol University.       Thailand Centre File 3-P-83-0317-03.
International        Development        Research        Centre,         Canada
(www.idrc.ca/library/document/008918/.

Sivaborvorn, K. and B.J. Dutka (1989) Coliphage presence in various types of potable
water in Thailand, Water Pollution Research Journal of Canada, 24(4): 583-588.

Sobsey, M.D. (2001) Microbial detection: implications for exposure, health effects,
and control. In: Safety of Water Disinfection: Balancing Chemical and Microbial
Risks, 2nd Edition, G.F. Craun (ed.) ILSI Press, Washington, D.C.

Townsend. S.A. 1992. The relationships between salmonellas and faecal indicator
bacteria concentrations in two pool in the Australia wet/dry tropics. J. Appl.
Bacteriol. 73:182-188.

Tyrell, S., Gardner, S., Howsam, P. and Carter, R. (1996) Biological removal of iron
from well-handpump water supplies. (Manuscript).

Venkobachar, C., D. Kumar, K. Talreja, A. Kumar and I. Iyengar (1994) Assessment
of bacteriological quality using a modified H-2S strip test. Aqua (Oxford), 43(6):
311-314.

Wetzel, R.G. 2001. Limnology, 3 rd Ed., Academic Press, San Diego, CA

Widdel, F. 1988. Microbiology and ecology of sulfate- and sulfur-reducing bacteria,
pp 469-586. In: Biology of Anaerobic Organisms, A.J.B. Zehnder (ed.), Wiley-Liss,
NY, NY.


                                         42
WHO (2002) Indicators (draft document). OECD, World Health Organization,
Geneva.

Yasushi, K. (1998) Microbially induced corrosion and biodegradation, Corrosion
Engineering,                                                       47:909-913.




                                      43
44
