(a)

is contained entirely on property owned (or controlled by easement) by the
discharger (to be demonstrated by the discharger),

(b)

does not contain natural waters except when such waters occur in direct
response to rainfall events by overland runoff, and

(c)

is so constructed or modified to minimize the migration of fish into said
channel.

Effluent channels shall be identified by the Commission and designated on a case-by-case
basis prior to permit issuance.
(21)

"Effluent" unless otherwise provided, means treated wastewater flowing out of
the treatment facilities.

(22)

"Empirical model" means a mathematical formulation whose various
reaction rates and input parameters are determined through empirical
formulations based on literature reviews. The simplest empirical model is a
dilution model.

(23)

"Ephemeral streams" normally are natural watercourses, including natural
watercourses that have been modified by channelization or man-made drainage
ditches, that, without the influence of point source discharges, flow only in direct
response to precipitation or irrigation return water discharge in the immediate
vicinity and whose channels are normally above the groundwater table. These
streams may contain a transient population of aquatic life during the portion of the
year when there is a suitable habitat for fish survival. Normally, aquatic habitat in
these streams is not adequate to support a reproductive cycle for fish and other
aquatic life. Wetlands are excluded from this classification.

(24)

"Estuary" means a semi-enclosed naturally existing coastal body of water which
has a free connection with the open sea and within which the chloride
concentration at the surface is equal to or greater than 1,500 milligrams per liter.

(25)

"Executive Director" means the Executive Director of the Department of
Environmental Quality.

(26)

"Fact sheet" means a description of a facility or activity, available to the public,
prepared by the Commission staff pursuant to the guidelines, which includes, but
is not limited to, information on the location of the discharge, rate or frequency of
the discharge, components of the discharge, proposed requirements of the Permit
Board regarding the discharge, the location and identification of uses of the
receiving waters, water quality standards and procedures for formulation of final
requirements on the discharge by the Permit Board.

10

