EXHIBIT D to Chapter 1, Subchapters 1 and 2 - BIOASSAY REQUIREMENTS
I.

Chronic Bioassay Requirements

The Water Quality Standards of Mississippi require that waters shall be free from substances
attributable to municipal, industrial, agricultural, or other discharges in concentrations or
combinations that are toxic or harmful to humans, animals, or aquatic life (State of Mississippi,
Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate, and Coastal Waters, Section II.4., Minimum Conditions
Applicable to All Waters (current edition). In accordance with such requirements, an NPDES
permit holder is authorized to discharge from outfall(s) only in accordance with the following
conditions:
1.
The permittee shall submit any existing toxicity data for review by the Mississippi Office
of Pollution Control within 30 days of the effective date of this permit.
2.
The permittee shall perform 7-day chronic, static renewal, definitive (a control and five
effluent concentrations) WET tests in accordance with Short-Term Methods for Estimating the
Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to Fresh water Organisms, (EPA/600/489/001) or Short-Term Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving
Waters to Marine and Estuarine Organisms, (EPA/600/4-87/028) or the most recent edition.
(a)
Dilution water used for these tests shall consist of reagent grade water, defined as
distilled or deionized water that does not contain substances which are toxic to the test
organisms. For freshwater tests, dilution water shall consist of reagent grade chemicals or
mineral water combined to make moderately hard dilution water according to Short-Term
Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to Freshwater
Organisms (EPA/600/4-89/001) or most recent edition9. For estuarine testing, dilution water
shall consist of synthetic seawater or hyper-saline brine combined to achieve a salinity of 20
parts per thousand according to Short-Term Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of
Effluents and Receiving Waters to Marine and Estuarine Organisms (EPA/600/4-87/028) or most
recent edition. These dilution waters will be deemed acceptable if the control organisms in the
toxicity tests meet the minimum EPA criteria for chronic tests.
(b)
If the Mississippi Office of Pollution Control determines the receiving waters are
freshwater, the permittee shall conduct a Ceriodaphnia dubia Survival and Reproduction Test,
and a Pimephales promelas Larval Survival and Growth Test on serial dilutions of effluent to
determine if the discharge from outfall(s) is chronically toxic. Such testing will determine if the
water affects the survival, growth, and reproduction of the test organisms. Static renewal tests
will be conducted on three 24- hour composite samples of effluent. The first of these composite
samples will be used to set up the tests and for the day 1 and day 2 renewals, the second of these
composite samples will be used to renew the tests on days 3 and 4, and the third composite
sample will be used to renew the tests on days 5 and 6. Not more than 36 hours will elapse
between sampling and the first use of any of the composite samples. The chronic test(s) shall be
considered valid only if the acceptability criteria referenced in Short-Term Methods for
9

Contact MDEQ Office of Pollution Control Laboratory for information on most recent editions(s) of methods
manual

109

