Acute Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to Fresh water and Marine Organisms, Fourth
Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027) or most recent edition. For estuarine testing, dilution water shall
consist of synthetic seawater or hyper-saline brine combined to achieve a salinity of 20 parts per
thousand according to Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving
Waters to Freshwater and Marine Organisms, Fourth Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027) or most
recent edition. These dilution waters will be deemed acceptable if the survival of the control
organisms in the toxicity tests is 90% or greater.
(d)
A standard reference toxicant quality assurance test (acute) shall be conducted
concurrently with the effluent tests using both species used in the toxicity tests. Alternatively, if
a lab conducts monthly QA/QC reference toxicant tests for both species as part of their SOP,
these results may be submitted in lieu of the above mentioned concurrent tests. In either case the
reference toxicant test results must be submitted in the final report as well as on the Mississippi
Office of Pollution Control NPDES Whole Effluent Toxicity Testing Report Form.
3.
The permittee shall conduct the first series of tests specified in Section 2 above within 90
days of the commencement of the discharge. The tests shall be conducted quarterly thereafter for
twelve (12) consecutive months, provided that the acute LC50 is greater than or equal to the
product of 3 times the IWC%. After the first year of testing, the frequency of monitoring will be
reduced to once per six months for the life of the permit. Sampling shall be timed to cover the
seasonal extremes of the year (hot- dry and cold-wet). The results of these acute toxicity tests
shall be reported to the Mississippi Environmental Quality Permit Board on the next quarterly
discharge monitoring report. Final acute toxicity test results shall be in report form as outlined in
Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents to Fresh water and Marine Organisms,
Fourth Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027) or most recent edition. Along with this report, the permittee
must submit a completed Mississippi Office of Pollution Control NPDES Whole Effluent
Toxicity Testing Report Form within two weeks following test completion.
4.
If either toxicity test results in an LC50 value of less than the product of 3 times the
IWC%, the permittee shall initiate a second toxicity test within 2 weeks after the completion of
the first toxicity test using the organism(s) that failed. The LC50 determinations from these tests
shall be reported to the Mississippi Environmental Quality Permit Board within two weeks after
completion of the test.
(a)In the event that the results of any toxicity test reveals that the LC50 of the permittee's effluent
is less than the product of 3 times the IWC%, then this finding will constitute a violation of Part I
of this permit. In the event the permittee passes the second toxicity test, the permittee shall
resume testing in accordance with the testing schedule set forth in the permit. In the event the
permittee fails the second WET test, the permittee shall submit a Toxicity Reduction Evaluation
Plan (TREP) within 45 days following completion of the follow-up tests to reduce the toxicity of
the effluent to safe levels12. The first phase of the TREP shall include monitoring to characterize
the toxicity of the effluent.
(b)
In addition to the specific conditions of this permit, the permittee shall comply with all
applicable conditions of 40 CFR 122.7 and 40 CFR 122.61 (06-03-93).
12

Safe levels will be determined by WPC-2.

112

