III.

ACUTE WHOLE EFFLUENT TOXICITY MONITORING REQUIREMENTS

The Water Quality Standards of Mississippi require that all waters be free from substances in
concentrations or combinations which are harmful to humans, animals, or aquatic life (State of
Mississippi, Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate, Interstate and Coastal Waters (current edition).
In accordance with such requirements, the permittee is authorized to discharge from outfall(s)
only in accordance with the following conditions:
1.
The permittee shall submit any existing toxicity data for review by the Mississippi Office
of Pollution Control within 30 days of the effective date of this permit.
2.
The permittee shall perform static, non-renewal, definitive (a control and five effluent
concentrations) toxicity tests at 25°C in accordance with Methods for Measuring the Acute
Toxicity of Effluents to Freshwater and Marine Organisms, Fourth Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027)
or the most recent edition. Acute toxicity tests will be conducted on 24-hour composite samples
of effluent, and tests must be initiated within 36-hours of completion of the sampling period.
(a)
If the Mississippi Office of Pollution Control determines the receiving stream is
freshwater, the permittee must use both the following test organisms and test durations:
(1)
(2)

Pimephales promelas (< 24-hrs.of age) - 96 hour
Ceriodaphnia dubia - 48 hour

(b)
If the Mississippi Office of Pollution Control determines the receiving stream is marine
or estuarine, the permittee must use both the following test organisms and test durations:
(1)
(2)

Menidia beryllina - 96 hour
Americamysis - 48 hour

(c)
Dilution water used for these tests shall consist of reagent grade water, defined as
distilled or deionized water that does not contain substances which are toxic to the test
organisms. For freshwater tests, dilution water shall consist of reagent grade chemicals or
mineral water combined to make moderately hard dilution water according to Methods for
Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to Fresh water and Marine
Organisms, Fourth Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027) or most recent edition. For estuarine testing,
dilution water shall consist of synthetic seawater or hyper-saline brine combined to achieve a
salinity of 20 parts per thousand according to Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of
Effluents and Receiving Waters to Freshwater and Marine Organisms, Fourth Edition, (EPA600/4-90/027) or most recent edition. These dilution waters will be deemed acceptable if the
survival of the control organisms in the toxicity tests is 90% or greater.
(d)
A standard reference toxicant quality assurance test (acute) shall be conducted
concurrently with the effluent tests using both species used in the toxicity tests. Alternatively, if
a lab conducts monthly QA/QC reference toxicant tests for both species as part of their SOP,
these results may be submitted in lieu of the above mentioned concurrent tests. In either case the
113

