reference toxicant test results must be submitted in the final report as well as on the Mississippi
Office of Pollution Control NPDES Whole Effluent Toxicity Testing Report Form.
3.
The permittee shall conduct the first series of tests specified in part 1 above within
90 days of the issuance of the permit. The tests shall be conducted quarterly thereafter for twelve
(12) consecutive months. After the first year of testing, the frequency of monitoring will be
reduced to once per six months for the life of the permit. Sampling shall be timed to cover the
seasonal extremes of the year (hot- dry and cold-wet). The results of these acute toxicity tests
shall be reported to the Mississippi Environmental Quality Permit Board on the next quarterly
discharge monitoring report. Final acute toxicity test results shall be in report form as outlined in
Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents to Freshwater and Marine Organisms,
Fourth Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027) or most recent edition. Along with this report, the permittee
must submit a completed Mississippi Office of Pollution Control NPDES Whole Effluent
Toxicity Testing Report Form within two weeks following test completion.
4.
In addition to the specific conditions of this permit, the permittee shall comply with all
applicable conditions of 40 CFR 122.7 and 40 CFR 122.61 (06-03-93).
IV.

CHRONIC WHOLE EFFLUENT TOXICITY MONITORING REQUIREMENTS

The Water Quality Standards of Mississippi require that all waters be free from substances in
concentrations or combinations which are harmful to humans, animals, or aquatic life (State of
Mississippi, Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate and Coastal Waters, Section II.4, Minimum
Conditions Applicable to All Waters (current edition). In accordance with such requirements,
the permittee is authorized to discharge from outfall(s) only in accordance with the following
conditions:
1.
The permittee shall submit any existing toxicity data for review by the Mississippi Office
of Pollution Control within 30 days of the effective date of this permit.
2.
The permittee shall perform 7-day chronic, static renewal, definitive (a control and five
effluent concentrations) WET tests in accordance with Short-Term Methods for Estimating the
Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to Freshwater Organisms, (EPA/600/489/001) or Short-Term Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving
Waters to Marine and Estuarine Organisms, (EPA/600/4-87/028) or the most recent edition.
(a)
Dilution water used for these tests shall consist of reagent grade water, defined as
distilled or deionized water that does not contain substances which are toxic to the test
organisms. For fresh water tests, dilution water shall consist of reagent grade chemicals or
mineral water combined to make moderately hard dilution water according to Short-Term
Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to Fresh water
Organisms (EPA/600/4-89/001) or most recent edition. For estuarine testing, dilution water shall
consist of synthetic seawater or hyper-saline brine combined to achieve a salinity of 20 parts
per thousand according to Short-Term Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents
and Receiving Waters to Marine and Estuarine Organisms (EPA/600/4-87/028) or most recent

114

