edition. These dilution waters will be deemed acceptable if the control organisms in the toxicity
tests meet the minimum EPA criteria for chronic tests.
(b)
If the Mississippi Office of Pollution Control determines the receiving waters are fresh
water, the permittee shall conduct a Ceriodaphnia dubia Survival and Reproduction Test, and a
Pimephales promelas Larval Survival and Growth Test on serial dilutions of effluent to
determine if the discharge from outfall(s) is chronically toxic. Such testing will determine if the
water affects the survival, growth, and reproduction of the test organisms. Static renewal tests
will be conducted on three 24- hour composite samples of effluent. The first of these composite
samples will be used to set up the tests and for the day 1 and day 2 renewals, the second of these
composite samples will be used to renew the tests on days 3 and 4, and the third composite
sample will be used to renew the tests on days 5 and 6. Not more than 36 hours will elapse
between sampling and the first use of any of the composite samples. The chronic test(s) shall be
considered valid only if the acceptability criteria referenced in Short-Term Methods for
estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to Freshwater Organisms,
(EPA/600/4-89/001), or the most recent edition, are met. All data shall be statistically analyzed
according to the referenced manual.
(c)
If the Mississippi Office of Pollution Control determines that the receiving water is
estuarine, the permittee shall conduct a Menidia beryllina Larval Survival and Growth Test and a
Americamysis Survival, Growth, and Fecundity Test on serial dilutions of effluent to determine if
the discharge from outfall(s) is chronically toxic. Such testing will determine if the water affects
the survival, growth, and fecundity of the test organisms. Static renewal tests will be conducted
on three 24-hour composite samples of effluent. The first of these composite samples will be
used to set up the tests and for the day 1 and day 2 renewals, the second of these composite
samples will be used to renew the tests on days 3 and 4, and the third composite sample will be
used to renew the tests on days 5 and 6. Not more than 36 hours will elapse between sampling
and the first use of any of the composite samples. The chronic test(s) shall be considered valid
only if the acceptability criteria referenced in Short-Term Methods for Estimating the Chronic
Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to Marine and Estuarine Organisms, (EPA/600/487/028) or most recent edition are met. All test data shall be statistically analyzed according to
the referenced manual.
(d)
A standard reference toxicant quality assurance test (chronic) shall be conducted
concurrently with the effluent tests using both species used in the toxicity tests. Alternatively, if
a lab conducts monthly QA/QC reference toxicant tests with both species as part of their SOP,
these results may be submitted in lieu of the above mentioned concurrent tests results. In either
case, the reference toxicant test results must be submitted with the final report as well as on the
Mississippi Office of Pollution Control NPDES Whole Effluent Toxicity Testing Report Form
within two weeks of test completion. Final chronic toxicity test results shall be in report form as
outlined in Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents to Freshwater and Marine
Organisms, Fourth Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027) or most recent edition.
4.
These chronic toxicity tests shall be initiated within 90 days of the date of issuance of the
permit to evaluate wastewater toxicity. Such chronic toxicity tests shall be conducted once per
quarter for a period of one year following the effective date of the permit. After the first year of
115

