II.

Water Body Tiers

Antidegradation is generally considered in a tiered approach. Tier 1 waters are those waters in
which the existing water quality does not support designated uses. Tier 2 waters are those waters
in which the water quality meets or exceeds the mandatory minimum levels to support the Clean
Water Act (CWA) goal of propagation of fish, shellfish, and wildlife, and recreation in and on
such waters. Tier 3 waters are those high quality waters that constitute Outstanding National
Resource Waters (ONRWs). MDEQ will decide which tier applies for State waters based on a
review of applicable information as described below. All existing uses must be maintained and
protected in all waters of the State regardless of whether they are considered a Tier 1, 2, or 3
water.
All waters in Mississippi are considered to be Tier 2 waters unless one of the following
conditions is met:
(1)
the water is designated as an Outstanding National Resource Water (ONRW), in which
case, it is a Tier 3 water;
(2)
the water is identified on Mississippi’s current §303(d) list, in which case it is defined as
a Tier 1 water with respect to the pollutant(s) causing impairment; or
(3)
the water has been subject to an established final Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL),
in which case it is defined as a Tier 1 water with respect to the pollutant(s) addressed by the
TMDL.
Tier 1 Waters
Tier 1 waters are those water body segments that are known to be impaired by a pollutant. Such
waters have an established as final TMDL or are listed in the State’s most recently adopted
§303(d) list. For Tier 1 waters, the antidegradation policy is implemented through the State’s
NPDES Permit Issuance Process. New or expanding discharges are not allowed in Section
303(d) listed waters if there is an increase in pollutants proposed for which the water is listed,
unless there is a TMDL developed that can be attained due to available assimilative capacity
within the wasteload allocation as part of the TMDL. Tier 1 water bodies are pollutant specific,
and this designation does not relieve a permit applicant from the requirements of an
antidegradation report for this or other “non-listed” pollutants as required proposed to be
discharged.

121

