Tier 2 Waters
Tier 2 waters are those water bodies that:
(1)
have been determined to have assimilative capacity based on assessment of water quality
data and/or water quality modeling tools; or
(2)
are assumed to have assimilative capacity because there are insufficient data or
information to conclude that there is no assimilative capacity.
An antidegradation report is required for all proposed new or expanding discharges into Tier 2
waters. The level of detail involved in an antidegradation review will generally be dependent
upon the State’s judgment of the potential impact on water quality from a proposed activity
considering factors such as the type of activity (e.g., covered by a general or individual permit)
and magnitude of the discharge (e.g., major or minor).
Tier 3 Waters
When the Commission determines that high quality waters constitute an Outstanding National
Resource, such as waters of National and State Parks and Wildlife Refuges and waters of
exceptional recreational or ecological significance, the water quality of such waters shall be
maintained and protected by adopting Tier 3 designation. Tier 3 waters are considered
Outstanding National Resource Waters (ONRW). In order to achieve this designation, the
stream must be nominated as a Tier 3 ONRW and adopted by the Mississippi Commission on
Environmental Quality (MCEQ). Any person may submit a nomination to the Commission
which will include the rationale and documentation citing the historical, recreational or
ecological significance of the water body. The submission must include documentation as
shown in Exhibit G. Upon receipt of the nomination, the Commission staff will review the water
body, assess any available data or information to determine the impairment status, identify the
current NPDES permits in the watershed, and make a recommendation to the Commission for
consideration. If adopted as a Tier 3 water, the water body will not be allowed to experience any
further permanent degradation.
III.

Applicability of Antidegradation Policy Review Methods

The methods outlined herein focus on how the State will implement the antidegradation policy
for discharges to surface waters. The methods include the following components:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)

A determination of the impact of the discharge upon state waters;
alternatives analysis;
socio-economic issues;
a preliminary State antidegradation decision;
public review/input; and
a final State decision.

122

