A report regarding compliance with the antidegradation policy shall be conducted for all new or
expanding wastewater discharges into Mississippi surface waters that require an NPDES permit.
NPDES Permit reissuances will not be subject to the report procedures provided there are no
proposed changes to the facility’s effluent which would result in increases in pollutant loadings.
General permit coverage will undergo an antidegradation review. MDEQ will conduct the
antidegradation review for each activity for which a Notice of Intent (NOI) to discharge is
received for coverage under a general permit. The procedures for general permits follow:
(1)
An application is received for coverage (NOI).
(2)
The NOI is posted on MDEQ’s website at
http://opc.deq.state.ms.us/report_gnp_notice.aspx. Typically, the notice is posted for at least a
10-day period prior to action on the NOI.
(3)
The permit manager uses the NOI application and other available data and information to
answer a list of questions that relate to a proposed project including alternatives analysis and
socio-economic issues.
(4)
The information in the completed project awareness checklist provides the basis for
MDEQ to complete its antidegradation review.
(5)
If, based on the results of the antidegradation review, MDEQ determines that the
applicant can receive coverage under a general permit, notice of coverage by a general permit is
posted on MDEQ’s website at: http://opc.deq.state.ms.us/report_gnp_issued.aspx.
(6)
If, based on the results of the antidegradation review, MDEQ determines that the
applicant cannot receive coverage; the applicant must apply for an individual NPDES permit and
fulfill the requirements of Section IV of this methodology.
IV Required Antidegradation Components
The antidegradation report requirements must be addressed as described in this section and
contained in the forms attached hereto. The Antidegradation Instruction Form along with the
Calculation of Total Annualized Project Costs worksheets should be incorporated into the
appropriate NPDES application forms.
These forms shall be completed by all individual NPDES permit applicants for new discharges or
existing discharges with proposed effluents that contain new or additional pollutants or an
increase in flow that results in an increase in pollutant loading. Antidegradation requires
documentation that discharge and treatment alternatives and socio-economic impacts have been
evaluated and considered. The applicant may utilize EPA’s “The Interim Economic Guidance
for Water Quality Standards Workbook” dated March, 1995, for guidance in completing the
report.
Project Information
The applicant should supply the required information from the Antidegradation Instruction Form
providing the specific information regarding the name and other pertinent details of the proposed
discharge. The location information and/or a map must be provided. The proposed effluent
discharge flow details should also be given in this section. MDEQ reserves the right to require

123

