Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.
Rule 1.3.3 Public Notice and Public Hearing.
A.

B.

Public Notice. Public notice of all applications for § 401 certification is required. Public
notice may be accomplished through either a joint public notice between the federal
and/or state agency and the Department or a public notice by the applicant at his expense.
(1)

Joint public notice procedures with federal or state agencies are normally used to
facilitate processing.

(2)

If a joint public notice procedure is not implemented, public notice shall be
accomplished by publication by the applicant in a newspaper having general
circulation in the area in which the activity is proposed or throughout the State.
The Department shall provide the applicant with the format for publication.

(3)

The public notice of the application for certification shall provide a reasonable
period of time, normally at least 30 days from the date of notice, within which
interested persons may submit to the Department their comments and information
concerning the certification application.

Public Hearing.
(1)

Any person may request a public hearing during the comment period. Requests
shall be in writing addressed to the Department and shall state the issues to be
raised at the hearing.

(2)

The Department shall hold a public hearing whenever the Department determines
such a hearing may be useful in reaching a decision on an application for
certification. The public hearing shall be held within thirty (30) days after the
Department makes its determination, and notifies the applicant. The Department
shall coordinate with other regulatory agencies and conduct joint public hearings
when feasible. The decision of whether public hearings shall be held jointly or
independently will be made on a case-by-case basis.

(3)

All public hearings shall be reported verbatim by a court reporter. A copy of the
transcript shall be made available for public inspection.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.
Rule 1.3.4 Scope of Review for Application Decisions.
A.

Factors. The factors related to the construction and operations of the activity which must
be addressed by the applicant and will be considered in determining certification action
are as follows:
142

