shall be evaluated in accordance with Rule 1.3.4.A and B. In addition, the
Department shall consider the following in evaluating sand and gravel mining
within or adjacent to streams.
(a)

Excavations Adjacent to Streams. To prevent adverse water quality
impacts resulting from excavations adjacent to streams, the Department
shall require a buffer zone between the mining activity and adjacent water
bodies. A buffer zone (natural or undisturbed greenbelt on the perimeter
of a land disturbing activity) shall be measured as the distance between the
edge of the mining activity and the highest point of the top bank of the
stream. Mining activity includes, but is not limited to, extraction
operations, stockpiling of overburden or sand and gravel, gravel washing
operations and sedimentation ponds. The purpose of the buffer zone is to
prevent nonpoint source impacts and channel and hydraulic modifications.
Channel and hydrologic modifications occur when the water body
captures a mining pit during high water. The width of the buffer zone
shall be based on the stream size. The buffer zone requirements for
excavations adjacent to streams are as follow:
(1)

Intermittent Streams. Mining activities adjacent to intermittent
streams shall normally have a 50-foot buffer zone. Intermittent
streams will generally be indicated by a broken blue line on the
latest version of the United States Department of the Interior
Geological Survey Quadrangle Map (Scale 1:24,000, 7.5 minute
series). The applicant may file a written request with the
Department to reroute an intermittent stream, either temporarily or
permanently, to avoid the mining activity. The Department shall
approve the applicant's request only if the applicant can
demonstrate that no significant adverse water quality impacts will
result from the rerouting. In the event the Department approves
the rerouting of an intermittent stream, appropriate erosion and
siltation controls shall be implemented. Slopes shall normally be
graded to 3 to 1 (horizontal to vertical) or flatter and seeded with a
native species of grass to prevent erosion. The Department may
require a different slope, on a case-by-case basis, as long as the
slope is protective of the integrity of the stream bank and water
quality.

(2)

Perennial Streams. Mining activities adjacent to perennial streams
shall normally have a 150-foot buffer zone. Perennial streams will
generally be indicated by a solid blue line on the latest version of
the United States Department of the Interior Geological Survey
Quadrangle Map (Scale 1:24,000, 7.5 minute series). When a
perennial stream is also classified as a navigable waterway, the
requirements regarding navigable waterways shall be applied.
145

