(3)

Navigable Waterways. Mining activities adjacent to navigable
waterways shall normally have a 300-foot buffer zone. Navigable
waterways are defined and designated by the U. S. Army Corps of
Engineers pursuant to Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act.
The Department may require a different buffer zone, on a case by
case basis, as long as the buffer zone is protective of water quality.
In determining whether a different buffer zone is appropriate, the
Department may consider factors including, but not limited to, the
stability of the stream banks and the existing uses of the stream and
adjacent areas.

(b)

Sand/Gravel Mining within Stream Banks. The two types of sand/gravel
mining within stream banks include sand/gravel bar mining in-the-dry and
sand/gravel mining in-the-wet13. To prevent adverse water quality
impacts, the Department has formulated a set of criteria for sand/gravel
bar mining in-the-dry. These criteria are attached hereto as Exhibit C and
incorporated herein by reference. Except as otherwise provided in these
regulations, sand/gravel mining in-the-wet may be allowed if the applicant
can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Department that the water
quality impacts associated with the proposed activity are minor. In
assessing the impacts on water quality, the Department shall consider
these activities on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the factors set
forth in Rule 1.3.4 .A and B.

(4)

Development Requiring Storm Water Management. Nonpoint source pollution is a
significant obstacle to preserving and improving the quality of our state's
waterways. In order to prevent adverse water quality impacts, the Department has
formulated a set of criteria for storm water management. These criteria must be
substantially satisfied in order for certification issuance to be considered. The
criteria with regard to storm water management is attached hereto as Exhibit D and
incorporated herein by reference. These storm water runoff criteria are separate
from any Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) required under any
required storm water permit.

(5)

Certain Existing Subdivisions on the Mississippi Gulf Coast originally platted in
lands which, because of the passage of the Federal Act and related laws and/or
regulations, are presently unsuitable for development.

13

"Sand/gravel bar mining in-the-dry" is mining in such a manner that no equipment or dredged material is in
contact with flowing water, that the soil/water or groundwater interface is not touched by the equipment and that
infiltration in the mining site is not pumped into the stream. "Sand/gravel mining in-the-wet" is mining in such a
manner that equipment and dredged material may come in contact with water.

146

