Several coastal subdivisions were platted prior to the passage of a number of
pertinent regulatory laws, including but not limited to, Sections 401 and 404 of the
Federal Act. These subdivisions typically have waterfront access to estuarine
waters by man-made canals, have inadequate sewage treatment, and require filling
of productive salt marsh. Current law and regulatory policy would not allow the
platting and/or development of such subdivisions due to adverse environmental
impacts. However, in an attempt to allow residential development to proceed in
existing platted and partially developed subdivisions, while addressing water
quality concerns, the Department has formulated a set of criteria that must be
substantially satisfied in order for certification issuance to be considered. The
criteria with regard to residential development in such subdivisions is attached
hereto as Exhibit E and incorporated herein by reference.
Notwithstanding the criteria set forth above, the Department may develop criteria
for other proposed activities which may have an adverse impact on water quality.
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.
Rule 1.3.5 Enforcement of Certification Decisions and Conditions
A.

Any certification shall set forth any effluent limitations, other limitations, and monitoring
requirements necessary to assure that any applicant for a Federal license or permit will
comply with any applicable effluent limitations and other limitations under 33 U. S. C. §§
1311 or 1312, standard of performance under 33 U. S. C. § 1316 or prohibition, effluent
standard, or pretreatment standard under 33 U. S. C. § 1317, and with any other
appropriate requirement of State law set forth in such certification. A certification
condition becomes a condition of the Federal license or permit. For purposes of Miss.
Code Ann. § 49-17-43, a violation of a certification condition is deemed a violation of a
permit issued by the Permit Board.

B.

Certification conditions are subject to enforcement proceedings available to the federal
agency issuing the permit or license. Other proceedings under State law, including
modification and/or revocation and/or suspension of certification and enforcement
actions pursuant to Miss. Code Ann. § 49-17-43, may also be used to correct or prevent
adverse water quality impacts resulting from construction or operation of activities for
which certification has been issued.

C.

The Department may conduct inspections for determining compliance with certification
conditions.

D.

Nothing in these regulations shall be construed to limit the authority of any department or
agency pursuant to any other provision of law to require compliance with any applicable
water quality requirements.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.
147

