EXHIBIT A to Chapter 1, Subchapter 3
CRITERIA FOR THE SITING AND DESIGN OF EXCAVATED CANALS
I.

Criteria for Canal Design and Siting

(a)
Canals shall not be constructed or excavated in wetlands, creeks or natural drainage
ways.
(b)
Canals should all have two or more connections to the parent body of water to allow
greater flow through the system.
(c)
Canals shall not be box cut. Slopes of canal banks shall be one vertical to three
horizontal or flatter to promote colonization by littoral vegetation, which provides nutrient
uptake, habitat and bank stabilization. Any bulkheading shall be done above ordinary high
water.
(d)
Canals shall be no deeper than -4 to -5 feet normal water level due to problems with
incomplete mixing, poor reaeration, stratification, and depressed dissolved oxygen associated
with excessive depths.
(e)
Excavation resulting in ridges or depressions within the canal shall be avoided due to
limitations on water exchange.
(f)
Where feasible, canal projects shall be located on the run of a river rather than in a pool
and backwater segment.
(g)
Canals shall be designed to maximize wind-induced mixing and other natural forms of
reaeration. For example, the longest dimension of the canal should be oriented with prevailing
winds. Complex geometric designs shall be avoided and keyhole boat slips shall not be placed
off of the canal. The minimum bottom width of a canal shall be 100 feet in order to allow for
reaeration.
(h)
Where feasible, designs shall have an enlarged surface area (a pool or embayment) which
is shallower than the canal at the landward terminus. This design results in better water quality
due to the enhanced effects of wind reaeration in the pool and in creased flow because of the
storage area in the pool.
II.

Wastewater Treatment

A central sewage collection and treatment system is the preferred method of wastewater
treatment. Individual home disposal systems shall only be considered after a determination is
made that other treatment methods are not economically feasible and State Department of Health
approval shall then be required. Wastewater treatment approval from either the Department or
the State Department of Health must be obtained prior to the issuance of a ยง 401 Certification.
The minimum requirements for wastewater treatment approvals shall include, but are not limited
to, the following:
(a)
no effluent, treated or untreated, shall be discharged directly into the canal,
(b)
depending on the soil type, a minimum of 150 feet from a septic tank absorption field to
any water body shall be required,

149

