administering these regulations, for reporting data and information to the Permit
Board by a permittee on monitoring and other conditions of permits.
(64)

“Sewerage Works” means pipelines or conduits, pumping stations, and force
mains, and other structures, devices, appurtenances and facilities used for
collecting or conducting wastes to an ultimate point for treatment or disposal.

(65)

"State general permit" means a state permit written to cover a specified category
of similar facilities within a specified geographical or political boundary.

(66)

"State permit" means an individual or general permit issued by the Permit Board
pursuant to regulations adopted by the Commission and/or Permit Board under
Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-17-17 and 49-17-29 for the operation of a treatment
works from which no discharge occurs, for discharges into State waters where an
NPDES or UIC permit may not be applicable, or for discharges to a publicly
owned treatment works where a pretreatment system is utilized.

(67)

“Submitted” means the document is postmarked on or before the applicable
deadline, except as otherwise specified.

(68)

"Technology based effluent limitation (TBEL)" means a minimum waste
treatment requirement, established by the Department, based on treatment
technology. The minimum treatment requirements may be set at levels more
stringent than that which is necessary to meet water quality standards of the
receiving water body as set out specifically in other sections of these regulations.
TBELs shall be federal effluent guidelines if promulgated, otherwise TBELs shall
be established in accordance with 40 CFR 125 subpart A, which is incorporated
herein and adopted by reference.

(69)

"The State law" means the Mississippi Air and Water Pollution Control Law,
specifically Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-17-1 through 49-17-43, and any subsequent
amendments thereto.

(70)

"Total Maximum Daily Load" or "TMDL" means the calculated maximum
permissible pollutant loading to a water body at which water quality standards can
be maintained. It is the sum of wasteload allocations (WLAs) and load
allocations (LAs) for any given pollutant plus a margin of safety in a watershed.

(71)

“Toxic Pollutants” means any pollutant listed as toxic under Section 307(a)(1) or,
in the case of “sludge use or disposal practices,” any pollutant identified in
regulations implementing Section 405(d) of the Clean Water Act.

(72)

"Trade secret" means information concerning the whole or any portion or phase of
any manufacturing proprietary process or method, not patented, which is secret,
used or useful in compounding goods having a commercial value, and the secrecy
of which the owner has taken reasonable measures to prevent from becoming
15

