5.

marinas that are in close proximity to a public water supply intake, or

6.

marinas that are in close proximity to a swimming area.

C.
Marinas utilizing wastewater pumpout facilities shall prominently display a sign at the
marina showing the location of the nearest pumpout facility as well as other appropriate waste
disposal information.
D.
The pumpout facility shall be tied into a collection and treatment system that has the
approval of the Department or State Department of Health.
E.
All marinas shall observe compliance with a "locked head" policy for all docked vessels
with Type I and II MSDS and the notification of this policy to marina users shall be initiated
upon completion of the project.
III.

Storm Water Management

The applicability of these criteria will be determined by the Department on a case-by-case basis.
If storm water runoff management is necessary to protect water quality, criteria shall be applied
as follows:
A.
Approximately the first half inch (0.5) of storm water runoff from impervious surfaces
and boat maintenance areas shall be retained. Runoff shall be routed through grassed swales,
wetlands, retention and detention ponds and other systems that decrease run off velocity,
increase infiltration and allow suspended solids to settle and remove pollutants in the water
column.
B.
Surface runoff from the construction, operation and/or maintenance of any service facility
associated with the marina, especially boat maintenance areas, shall not discharge directly into
water bodies with limited flushing and pollutant assimilation potential (i.e., marina basin,
entrance channels). When storm water outfalls are necessary, they shall be located to discharge
into areas with high flushing rates.
C.
Porous surfaces such as crushed stone or shell shall be used wherever possible
(particularly in parking areas).
D.
Clearing shall be minimized and vegetated buffers such as marsh or natural vegetation
shall be created and/or retained on the site between land disturbance activities and water areas.
E.
Erosion and sediment controls shall be installed prior to commencement of upland
construction.

152

