Part 6: Chapter 2: Mississippi Commission on Environmental Quality Regulations for
Water Quality Criteria For Intrastate, Interstate, And Coastal Waters
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Rule 2.1 General Conditions
Rule 2.2 Minimum Condition Applicable to All Waters
Rule 2.3 Specific Water Quality Criteria
Rule 2.4 Designated Uses In State Waters
Rule 2.1 General Conditions:
A.

Antidegradation: The policy inherent in the standards shall be to protect water quality
existing at the time these water quality standards were adopted and to upgrade or enhance
water quality within the State of Mississippi. Waters whose existing quality is better than
the established standards will be maintained at high quality unless the Commission finds,
after full satisfaction of the intergovernmental coordination and public participation
provisions of the State's continuing planning process, that allowing lower water quality is
necessary to accommodate important economic or social development in the area in
which the waters are located. In no event, however, may degradation of water quality
interfere with or become injurious to existing instream water uses. Further, in no case
will water quality be degraded below (or above) the base levels set forth in these
standards for the protection of the beneficial uses described herein. In addition, the State
will assure that there shall be achieved the highest statutory and regulatory requirements
for all new and existing point sources and all cost-effective and reasonable best
management practices for nonpoint source control. Where the Commission determines
that high quality waters constitute an outstanding national resource, such as waters of
National State Parks, Wildlife Refuges, and waters of exceptional recreational or
ecological significance, that water quality shall be maintained and protected. For the
purposes of this rule, existing uses are defined as those uses actually attained in the water
body on or after November 28, 1975, whether or not they are included in the Water
Quality Criteria.

B.

Sampling and Assessment: The limiting values of water quality herein described shall be
measured by the Commission in waters under consideration as determined by good
environmental engineering and scientific practice and after consultation with affected
parties. Samples shall be taken from points so distributed over the seasons of the year,
time of day, and area and depth of the waters being studied as to permit a realistic
assessment of water quality. All sampling must be conducted in accordance with the
MDEQ-approved Quality Management Plan (QMP), Quality Assurance Project Plan
(QAPP), or its equivalent.

158

