available to persons other than those selected by the owner to have access thereto
for limited purposes. It shall not be construed for purpose of this regulation to
include any information relative to the quantity and character of waste products or
their constituents discharged or sought to be discharged into waters of this State,
or into any publicly owned treatment works.
(73)

"Treatment works" means any plant or other works, used for the purpose of
treating, stabilizing, or holding wastes.

(74)

"UIC form" means any issued permit or any uniform national form used by the
Permit Board developed for use in the UIC Program and prescribed in regulations
promulgated by the Administrator of EPA including a UIC application and a
reporting form.

(75)

"UIC permit" means a permit issued by the Permit Board to a person pursuant to
regulations adopted by the Commission and/or Permit Board under Miss. Code
Ann. §§ 49-17-17 and 49-17-29 for discharges into underground waters of the
State.

(76)

"UIC Program" means the Underground Injection Control program established by
the Fed eral Safe Drinking Water Act.

(77)

"Upset" means an exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with technology based permit effluent limitations
because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the permittee. An upset does
not include noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly
designed treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.

(78)

"Vessel" means any contrivance used or capable of being used for navigation
upon water, whether or not capable of self propulsion, including foreign and
domestic vessels engaged in commerce upon the waters of this State, passenger or
other cargo carrying vessels, privately owned recreational watercraft or any other
floating craft.

(79)

"Waste" means sewage, industrial wastes, oil field wastes, and all other liquid,
gaseous, solid, radioactive, or other substances which may pollute or tend to
pollute any waters of the State.

(80)

"Wasteload allocation (WLA)" means the portion of a receiving water's loading
capacity attributed to or assigned to point sources of a pollutant.

(81)

"Water Quality Management Plans" for the purpose of these regulations, Water
Quality Management Plans are those plans developed pursuant to Section 208 of
the Federal Clean Water Act.

16

