minimum flow and/or the 7-day, 10-year minimum flow are inappropriate because of the
hydrology of the area, other appropriate State and federal agencies will be consulted in
establishing the applicable stream flow.
G.

Mississippi River: The Mississippi River is classified for Fish and Wildlife, but with the
following additions to the criteria stated herein:
Mineral Constituents: Not to exceed the following concentrations at any time:
From Mississippi-Tennessee border to Vicksburg
Chlorides
Sulfates
TDS

60 mg/l
150 mg/l
425 mg/l

From Vicksburg south to the Mississippi-Louisiana border
Chlorides
Sulfates
TDS
H.

75 mg/l
120 mg/l
400 mg/l

Mixing Zones: It is recognized that limited areas of mixing are sometimes unavoidable;
however, mixing zones shall not be used as a substitute for waste treatment. Mixing
zones constitute an area whereby physical mixing of a wastewater effluent with a
receiving water body occurs. Application of mixing zones shall be made on a case-bycase basis and shall only occur in cases involving large surface water bodies in which a
long distance or large area is required for the wastewater to completely mix with the
receiving water body.
The location of a mixing zone shall not significantly alter the designated uses of the
receiving water outside its established boundary. Adequate zones of passage for the
migration and free movement of fish and other aquatic biota shall be maintained.
Toxicity and human health concerns within the mixing zone shall be addressed as
specified in the Environmental Protection Agency Technical Support Document for
Water Quality-Based Toxics Control (EPA-505/2-90-001, March 1991) and amendments
thereof. Under no circumstances shall mixing zones overlap or cover tributaries, nursery
locations, locations of threatened or endangered species, or other ecologically sensitive
areas.

I.

Coastal Recreational Waters: Coastal Recreational Waters are marine and estuarine
waters that are suitable for recreational purposes, including such water contact activities
as swimming, wading, and water skiing. Coastal recreational waters do not include
inland waters upstream of the mouth of a river or a stream having a natural connection to
the open sea. Water quality monitoring for bacteria content is conducted on these waters
to protect the health of bathers. Water contact is discouraged on Mississippi’s public
160

