(9)

E. coli (Escherichia coli) is a common inhabitant of the intestinal tract of warm-blooded
animals, and its presence in water samples is an indication of fecal pollution and the
possible presence of enteric pathogens.

(10) Enteric pathogens are a species of bacteria can be highly pathogenic when they enter and
colonize the human digestive tract.
(11) Grab samples are samples where the entire sample is collected in one uninterrupted
interval.
(12) Mean Annual Flow is the total of daily mean flows for the full period of record divided
by the total days for the full period of record.
(13) Membrane Filtration (MF) is a method of quantitative or qualitative analysis of
bacterial or particulate matter in a water sample filtered through a membrane capable of
retaining bacteria.
(14) Most probable number (MPN) is the most probable number of coliform-group
organisms per unit volume of sample water.
(15) Point source is a stationary location or fixed facility from which pollutants are
discharged or emitted. Also, any single identifiable source of pollution, e.g., a pipe,
ditch, or ship.
(16) 7Q10 is the average streamflow rate over seven consecutive days that may be expected
to be reached as an annual minimum no more frequently than one year in ten years.
(17) 7Q2 is the average streamflow rate over seven consecutive days that may be expected to
be reached as an annual minimum no more frequently than one year in two years.
(18) Stratification is the formation of layers of water within a water body that are of different
densities. The density difference may be caused by variations of temperature, salinity,
or concentrations of other dissolved substances within the water at different depths.
(19) Threshold odor number is the number of times a sample needs to be diluted with clean
water in order to reach the level that smell is not detectable.
(20) Toxic substance means any substance or combination of substances (including diseasecausing agents), which after discharge and upon exposure, ingestion, inhalation, or
assimilation into any organism, whether directly from the environment or indirectly by
ingestion through food chains, has the potential to cause death, disease, behavioral
abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutations, physiological malfunctions (including
malfunctions or suppression in reproduction or growth) or physical deformities in such
organisms or their offspring.

162

