Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 2.2 Minimum Conditions Applicable to All Waters:
A.

Narrative Standards
(1)
Waters shall be free from substances attributable to municipal, industrial,
agricultural, or other discharges that will settle to form putrescent or otherwise
objectionable sludge deposits.
(2)
Waters shall be free from floating debris, oil, scum, and other floating materials
attributable to municipal, industrial, agricultural, or other discharges in amounts
sufficient to be unsightly or deleterious.
(3) Waters shall be free from materials attributable to municipal, industrial, agricultural,
or other discharges producing color, odor, taste, total suspended or dissolved solids,
sediment, turbidity, or other conditions in such degree as to create a nuisance, render the
waters injurious to public health, recreation, or to aquatic life and wildlife, or adversely
affect the palatability of fish, aesthetic quality, or impair the waters for any designated
use. Except as prohibited in Rule 2.1.H. above, the turbidity outside the limits of a 750foot mixing zone shall not exceed the background turbidity at the time of discharge by
more than 50 Nephelometric Turbidity Units (NTU). Exemptions to the turbidity
standard may be granted under the following circumstances:
(a)

in cases of emergency to protect the public health and welfare

(b)

for environmental restoration projects which will result in reasonable and
temporary deviations and which have been reviewed and approved by the
Department of Environmental Quality.

(4)
Waters shall be free from substances attributable to municipal, industrial,
agricultural, or other discharges in concentrations or combinations that are toxic or
harmful to humans, animals, or aquatic life. Specific requirements for toxicity are found
in Rule 2.2.F.
(5)
Municipal wastes, industrial wastes, or other wastes shall receive effective
treatment or control in accordance with Section 301, 306, and 307 of the Federal Clean
Water Act. A degree of treatment greater than defined in these sections may be required
when necessary to protect legitimate water uses.
B. Water Body Classifications and Designated Uses: The State of Mississippi water body
classifications and corresponding U.S. EPA associated designated uses for water quality
assessment purposes recognized by the State of Mississippi are as follows:
163

