(82)

"Water Quality Standards" the criteria and requirements set forth in State of
Mississippi Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate, Interstate, and Coastal Waters.
Water quality standards are standards composed of designated present and future
most beneficial uses (classification of waters), the numerical and narrative criteria
applied to the specific water uses or classification, and the Mississippi
antidegradation policy.

(83)

"Water quality based effluent limitation (WQBEL)" means an effluent limitation,
which may be more stringent than a technology based effluent limitation,
determined as necessary by the Department to ensure that water quality standards
in a receiving body of water will not be violated.

(84)

"Water quality criteria" are elements of State water quality standards, expressed
as constituent concentrations, levels, or narrative statements, representing a
quality of water that supports the present and future most beneficial uses.

(85)

"Waters of the State" means all waters within the jurisdiction of this State,
including all streams, lakes, ponds, wetlands, impounding reservoirs, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, irrigation systems, drainage systems, and
all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface and underground, natural or
artificial, situated wholly or partly within or bordering upon the State, and such
coastal waters as are within the jurisdiction of the State, except lakes, ponds, or
other surface waters which are wholly landlocked and privately owned, and which
are not regulated under the Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C.1251, et seq..).

(86)

"Weekly average" means the average of "daily discharges" over a calendar week,
calculated as the sum of all "daily discharges" measured during a calendar week
divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured during that week. The
weekly average for fecal coliform bacteria is the geometric mean of all "daily
discharges" measured in a calendar week. In computing the geometric mean for
fecal coliform bacteria, one (1) shall be substituted for sample results of zero. For
self-monitoring purposes, the value to be reported is the single highest weekly
average computed during a calendar month.

(87)

"Yearly average" means the average of "daily discharges" over a calendar year,
calculated as the sum of all "daily discharges" measured during the calendar year
divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured during the calendar year.
The yearly average for fecal coliform bacteria is the geometric mean of "daily
discharges" during the calendar year. In computing the geometric mean for fecal
coliform bacteria, the value one (1) shall be substituted for sample results of zero.

(88)

"Yearly maximum" means the highest "daily discharge" measured over a calendar
year.

(89)

"Zone of mixing" or "Mixing Zone" constitutes an area whereby physical mixing
of a wastewater effluent with a receiving water body occurs.
17

