E.

EPHEMERAL STREAM CLASSIFICATION:
Waters in this classification do not support a fisheries resource and are not usable for
human consumption or aquatic life. Ephemeral streams normally are natural watercourses,
including natural watercourses that have been modified by channelization or a manmade
drainage ditch, that without the contribution of point source discharges, flow only in direct
response to precipitation or irrigation return-water discharge in the immediate vicinity and
whose channels are normally above the groundwater table. Physical conditions related to
the natural features of the water body, such as the lack of a proper substrate, cover, flow,
depth, pools, riffles, and the like, unrelated to water quality, preclude attainment of aquatic
life protection uses. These streams may contain a transient population of aquatic life during
the portion of the year when there is suitable habitat for fish survival. Normally, aquatic
habitat in these streams is not adequate to support a reproductive cycle for fish and other
aquatic life. Wetlands are excluded from this classification.
Waters in this classification shall be protective of wildlife and humans that may come in
contact with the waters. Waters contained in ephemeral streams shall also allow
maintenance of the standards applicable to all downstream waters.

(1)

Provisions A, B, C, and E of Rule 2.2 (Minimum Conditions Applicable to All
Waters: Narrative Standards) are applicable except as they relate to fish and other
aquatic life. All aspects of provisions 2.2.A.4) and 2.2.F. concerning toxicity will
apply to ephemeral streams, except for domestic or compatible domestic wastewater
discharges which will be required to meet toxicity requirements in downstream
waters not classified as ephemeral. Alternative methods may be utilized to
determine the potential toxic effect of ammonia. Acutely toxic conditions are
prohibited under any circumstances in waters in this classification.

(2)

Dissolved Oxygen: The dissolved oxygen shall be maintained at an appropriate level
to avoid nuisance conditions.

(3)

Bacteria: The Permit Board may assign bacterial criteria where the probability of a
public health hazard or other circumstances so warrant.

(4)

Fisheries resource is defined as any water body which has a viable gamefish
population as documented by the Mississippi Department of Wildlife Fisheries and
Parks or has sufficient flow or physical characteristics to support the fishing use
during times other than periods of flow after precipitation events or irrigation return
water discharge.

(5)

"Not usable for human consumption or aquatic life" means that sufficient flow or
physical characteristics are not available to support these uses.

(6)

"Flow only in response to precipitation or irrigation return water" means that
without the influence of point source discharges the stream will be dry unless there
has been recent rainfall or a discharge of irrigation return water.
178

