of two (2) years experience. Thirty (30) semester hours are equal to
one (1) year of college.
(d)

B.

C.

Special education, training, or experience which does not fall within
these guidelines shall be considered in individual cases by the
Department.

General Qualifications for Certification
(a)

One year of the required experience must be earned under the supervision of
a certified operator who holds a valid non-restricted certificate issued by the
Department at a class equivalent to or higher than that for which
certification is being requested. The year of supervision must be in a system
of a class equivalent to or higher than the class certificate being requested.
The supervising operator must sign a certification statement verifying the
successful completion of the required period of supervision.

(b)

To be eligible to serve as the certified operator for a wastewater facility, an
operator’s principal residence must be no more than fifty (50) miles from
the system. Under special circumstances, an operator may apply to the
Department in writing for a waiver of the 50 mile requirement.

Professional References
References must be obtained from Certified operator(s) of the same Classification as
that which is being requested or higher, who are familiar with the applicant's
experience working in a wastewater facility. The references must be provided on
professional reference forms provided by the Department. These forms must be
submitted with the certification application.

D.

Application
(1)

An operator desiring to be certified shall file an application with the
Department on a form provided by the Department.

(2)

The Department shall review applications and supporting documents and
experience of the applicant, determine the eligibility of the applicant, and
issue certificates when the applicant meets the requirements of the
Municipal and Domestic Water and Wastewater System and Nonhazardous
Solid Waste Management Facilities Operator's Certification
Act of 1992 and these regulations.

(3)

The Commission may deny an application if the Commission determines
that the applicant has not complied with all of the provisions of these
regulations and with all other applicable Federal, State and local statutes and
regulations or has submitted inaccurate or false information in the
application, or has submitted incomplete application forms after being
203

