poultry operation that generates dry litter or waste unless such facility has
a continuous overflow watering system) must be at least 1000 feet from
the nearest non-owned (by the applicant) occupied dwelling or
commercial establishment and at least 300 feet from the nearest adjoining
property line. Any facility for the housing of broiler pullets, broiler
breeders and broilers in a poultry operation that generates dry litter or
waste constructed, significantly enlarged or altered after February 24,
1994 (date of adoption of these regulations) must be at least 600 feet from
the nearest non-owned (by the applicant) occupied dwelling or
commercial establishment and at least 150 feet from the nearest adjoining
property line. In the event new treatment facilities are proposed for an
existing confined animal operation, the Permit Board will consider
requests for exceptions to, or variances from, the buffer zone
requirements, and the requirements of Rule 1.1.1.C.2.e., based upon such
factors as the relative distances and age of the existing operation.
(d)

Land application of animal waste (excluding dry litter waste) must be at
least 50 feet from the nearest adjoining property line and at least 300 feet
from the nearest non-owned (by the applicant) occupied dwelling. Land
application of dry litter waste must be at least 25 feet from the nearest
adjoining property line and at least 150 feet from the nearest non-owned
(by the applicant) occupied dwelling.

(e)

The Permit Board may consider a buffer zone of less than 150 feet for
subsurface treated effluent disposal.

(f)

In the event the buffer zone requirements specified in Rule 1.1.1.C.2.a and
c. above cannot be met; the Permit Board will consider requests for
exceptions to, or variances from, such requirements upon sufficient proof
that affected property owners within the subject buffer zone have had
timely and sufficient notice of the proposed facility. The buffer zone
requirement may be waived by written permission issued by the affected
property owners. Any comments received as a result of such notice shall
be considered prior to action upon any request for exceptions to, or
variances from, the buffer zone requirements. At all times a minimum 10
foot buffer zone is required. The Permit Board may consider the
following factors in deciding whether or not a variance and/or exception
should be granted:
(1)

whether a person and/or facility moves within the buffer zone of a
treatment facility, previously approved by the Permit Board;

(2)

the type of land disposal techniques employed, including, but not
limited to, subsurface injection of wastes, and the utilization of
spray irrigation; and/or

21

