C.

Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this regulation, shall have the
following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
(1)

Act - The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251, et
seq., including any future amendments.

(2)

Alternative Technology - Proven wastewater treatment processes and techniques
which provide for the reclaiming and reuse of water, productively recycle
wastewater constituents or otherwise eliminate the discharge of pollutants, or
recover energy. Specifically, alternative technology includes land application of
effluent and sludge; aquifer recharge; aquaculture; direct reuse (non-potable);
horticulture; revegetation of disturbed land; containment ponds; sludge
composting and drying prior to land application; self-sustaining incineration;
methane recovery; individual and onsite systems; and small diameter pressure and
vacuum sewers and small diameter gravity sewers carrying partially or fully
treated wastewater.

(3)

Authorized Representative - The signatory agent of the applicant authorized and
directed by the applicant's governing body to make application for assistance and
to sign documents required to undertake and complete the project, on behalf of the
applicant. The signatory agent must be a member of, or an employee of, the
applicant's governing body, and may not be under a separate contract with the
applicant at any time during the execution of the project.

(4)

Best Practicable Waste Treatment Technologies - The cost-effective technology
that can treat wastewater, combined sewer overflows and nonexcessive infiltration
and inflow in publicly owned or individual wastewater treatment works to meet
the applicable provisions of federal and state effluent limitations, groundwater
protection, or other applicable standards.

(5)

Binding Commitment - A legal obligation, enforceable under State law,
specifying the terms and schedules under which assistance is provided.

(6)

Building - The erection, acquisition, alteration, remodeling, improvement or
extension of treatment works.

(7)

Capitalization Grant - Federal grant assistance awarded to the State for the
establishment of the State Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund.

(8)

Change Order - The documents issued by the loan recipient, upon
recommendation of the consulting engineer, authorizing a change, alteration, or
variance in previously approved engineering plans, specifications, and contract
documents, including but not limited to, additions or deletions of work to be
performed pursuant to the contract or a change in costs or time for work
performed pursuant to the contract.

210

