(9)

Collector Sewer - The common lateral sewers, within a publicly owned treatment
system, which are primarily installed to receive wastewaters directly from
facilities which convey wastewater from individual systems, or from private
property.

(10)

Commission - The Mississippi Commission on Environmental Quality or its
successors.

(11)

Construction - Any one or more of the following: erection, building, acquisition,
alteration, remodeling, improvement or extension of treatment works.

(12)

Construction Fund - A dedicated source of funds, created and maintained by the
applicant in a separate account at an official depository, or a designated
depository approved by the Department staff, used solely for the purposes of
construction and other allowable costs of a project funded by the Commission.

(13)

Consulting Engineer - The engineer or engineering firm retained by the loan
recipient to provide professional engineering services during the planning, design,
and/or construction of a project.

(14)

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis - An analysis performed to determine which waste
treatment management system or component part will result in the minimum total
monetary (resources) costs over time, without overriding nonmonetary
considerations, to meet federal, state, and local requirements and objectives.

(15)

Department - The Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality and staff.

(16)

Effluent Limitation - Any restriction established by the Department or the EPA
administrator on quantities, rates, and concentrations of chemical, physical,
biological and other constituents which are discharged from a point source into
waters of the State.

(17)

Eligible Applicant - A public waste treatment or collection management agency
or any city, town, county, district, or other public body created by or pursuant to
state law which has authority to dispose of domestic wastewater, industrial
wastewater, wastewater sludges resulting from the treatment of such wastewater,
stormwater, or nonpoint sources of pollution, has the authority under State and
Federal law to receive SRF loan assistance, and has the ability to comply with this
regulation and the requirements of the SRF loan agreement.

(18)

Enforceable Requirements of the Act - Those conditions and limitations of
permits issued pursuant to the Act, Sections 402 and 404, which, if violated, could
result in issuance of a compliance order or initiation of a civil or criminal action
under the Act, Section 309. Where a permit has not been issued, but issuance is
anticipated, the term means any requirement which will be in the permit when
issued.

211

