(19)

Environmental Determination - A finding by the Department regarding the
potential environmental impacts of a proposed project and describing what
mitigative measures, if any, the applicant will be required to implement as a
condition of financial assistance.

(20)

Environmental Information Document - A written analysis prepared by the
applicant describing the potential environmental impacts of a proposed project,
sufficient in scope to enable the Department staff to make an environmental
assessment to allow an environmental determination to be made by the
Department.

(21)

Environmental Review - The process whereby an evaluation is undertaken by the
Department, consistent with the National Environmental Policy Act and other
federal, state, and local laws and requirements, to determine whether a proposed
project may have significant impacts on the environment.

(22)

EPA - The Environmental Protection Agency.

(23)

EPA Administrator - The chief officer of the Environmental Protection Agency
appointed by the President of the United States.

(24)

Estuary Management Plan - A plan for the conservation and management of an
estuary of national significance as described in Section 320 of the Act.

(25)

Executive Director - The executive director of the Mississippi Department of
Environmental Quality, or his designee.

(26)

Facilities Planning - Those necessary plans and studies which directly relate to
treatment works needed to comply with enforceable requirements of the Act and
other eligible treatment works, and which consist of a systematic evaluation of
alternatives that are feasible in light of the unique demographic, topographic,
hydrologic and institutional characteristics of the area and will demonstrate the
selected alternative is cost-effective, practical to implement and environmentally
sound.

(27)

Financial Assistance - Loans by the Commission from the Water Pollution
Control Revolving Fund.

(28)

Fund - The State Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund, created pursuant to
Section 49-17-61, Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended.

(29)

Infiltration - Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
sewer service connections and foundation drains) from the ground through such
means as defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manholes. Infiltration does
not include, and is distinguished from, inflow.

212

