(36)

Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents - The engineering description of
the project including engineering drawings, maps, technical specifications, design
reports and construction contract documents in sufficient detail as required by the
Department staff, to allow contractors to bid on and construct the work.

(37)

Point Source - Any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, including but
not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete fissure,
container, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding operation, or vessel or other
floating craft, from which pollutants are or may be discharged. This term does
not include agricultural stormwater discharges and return flows from irrigated
agriculture.

(38)

Priority List - A list of projects for which SRF assistance has been requested, and
which displays projects that are both fundable during the current fiscal year and
are planned for possible future funding, consistent with the current Priority
System.

(39)

Priority System - The method of ranking projects for which SRF funding
assistance has been requested, in order of priorities established by the
Commission.

(40)

Project - The scope of work for which assistance is awarded under the SRF.

(41)

Project Completion - The date of the final construction inspection as performed
by the Department.

(42)

Project Performance Standards - The performance and operational requirements
applicable to a project including, but not limited to, the enforceable requirements
of the Act and the specifications, which the project is planned to meet.

(43)

Refinancing - To provide SRF assistance for a project or project portion where the
debt obligation was incurred and construction began prior to the date of the SRF
loan award.

(44)

Regional Facility - Wastewater collection and treatment facilities, which
incorporate multiple service areas into an area wide service facility, thereby
reducing the number of required facilities, or any system which serves an area that
is other than a single county, city, special district, or other political subdivision of
the state, the specified size of which is determined by any one or combination of
population, number of governmental entities served, and/or service capacity.

(45)

Service Line - A conduit intended to carry wastewater, together with minor
quantities of infiltration and inflow that are not admitted intentionally, from
residences, public buildings and businesses to a collector sewer.

(46)

State Allotment - The sum allocated to the State of Mississippi for a federal fiscal
year, from funds appropriated by Congress pursuant to the Act.
214

