J.

Responsibility. The applicant (or loan recipient) is responsible for the proper planning,
design, construction, operation, maintenance, replacement, performance, and fiscal
integrity of the project. The Department's approval of any document does not relieve the
applicant (or loan recipient) or any others of any liabilities or responsibilities.
Department approval of any document is for administrative purposes only and does not
establish or convey any such liability or responsibility.

K.

Other Approvals. The applicant (or loan recipient) shall obtain approval of all necessary
documents from each state, local, and federal agency having jurisdiction over or funding
in the project, if so required by that agency.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-17-61 through 49-17-70, 49-17-81 through 49-17-89, 49-2-1, et
seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.
Rule 4.3 Project Requirements. Until such time as the State satisfies the Title II funding
limitations described in Rule 4.2.G. of this regulation, all wastewater projects (as described in
Section 212 of the Act) funded by the SRF must comply with the Title II requirements of Rule
4.2.G. and the crosscutting requirements in Appendix H. In addition, the following project
requirements also apply:
A.

Facilities Planning.
(1)

Preplanning Conference. Potential applicants and/or their consulting engineer
shall request and attend a preplanning conference with the Department staff as
early in the planning process as practical. During the conference the staff will
provide information, advice, instruction, and guidance on the scope of work and
level of effort needed to define eligible projects, in order to ensure that the
applicant expeditiously complies with the facilities planning requirements dictated
by the Act and State regulations. All facilities plans must be prepared by or under
the responsible supervision of a professional engineer, registered under
Mississippi law.

(2)

Contents of Facilities Plan. All facilities plans must contain that described in the
Department's guidance for SRF facilities plans, including all updates, and as may
be required by Department staff pursuant to review of the facilities plan. The
facilities plan must also be prepared in accordance with Appendices A, B, C, H, I,
K, M, and N of this regulation. Should an applicant desire to omit or modify a
portion of the facilities plan as required by the Department's guidance for SRF
facilities plans, approval by the Department staff must be obtained prior to
completion and submission of the facilities plan. The facilities plan must also
include a financial capability analysis in accordance with Department guidance.
The facilities plan must bear the seal of the registered professional engineer
responsible for preparation of this document.

(3)

Environmental Review Process. Prior to approval of the facilities plan, the
Department staff will complete the appropriate portions of the environmental
221

