review procedure described in Appendix C of this regulation, based upon the
evaluation of environmental impacts of the selected alternative as described in the
facilities plan.
(4)

B.

Approval of Facilities Plan. The Department staff will approve the facilities plan
after completing the appropriate environmental review procedure and after
determining that all facilities planning requirements have been met and are
approvable.

Engineering Design.
(1)

Predesign Conference. Potential applicants and/or their consulting engineer shall
request and attend a predesign conference with Department staff as early in the
design process as practical. all plans, specifications and contract documents must
be prepared by or under the responsible supervision of a professional engineer
registered under Mississippi law.

(2)

Value Engineering.

(3)

(a)

Applicability. The applicant shall conduct value engineering during the
design of the project, if he estimated cost of building the treatment works
is more than $5 million. Value engineering for projects of less than $5
million may be conducted at the discretion of the applicant. Applicants
who conduct value engineering may receive an additional design
allowance, as described in Appendix B, as a part of the loan award.

(b)

Guidance. The applicant shall utilize the Department's guidance on the
scope and performance of the value engineering analysis.

Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents.
(a)

General Requirements. The applicant shall prepare plans, specifications
and contract documents on all appropriate elements of the project. These
documents shall conform to Department requirements, to Appendices A,
C, D, E, F, H, I, K, L, M, and N of this regulation, and to the technical
requirements of the Departmental document, "State of Mississippi
Requirements for the Design of Municipal Wastewater Treatment
Facilities," or its successor. Other recognized engineering publications
may be used for unit processes or technologies not described in the
"Requirements."
Plans, specifications, and contract documents must also conform to such
contract language, conditions, and forms as may be required by
Department staff. The plans and specifications shall incorporate the
accepted recommendations of any value engineering performed in
accordance with this regulation. The plans, specifications, and contract

222

