(2)

Contents of Application. All documents listed below must be complete and
approvable when submitted to the Department staff.
An original and one copy of the SRF loan application shall be submitted to the
Department staff. Only forms provided by the Department staff may be used, and
they must not be altered. The SRF loan application may request assistance only
for costs that are allowable in accordance with Appendices A and B of this
regulation, and may include a construction contingency, as determined by the
Department staff, in the project budget. The application amount shall include any
administration fee charged to the loan recipient by the Department, as established
in the Intended Use Plan under which the project is funded. A complete
application shall conform to this regulation, including all Appendices, and shall
include the following:
(a)

A completed SRF loan application form.

(b)

A draft user charge system and ordinance. The user charge system shall
be designed to produce adequate revenues required for operation,
maintenance, replacement, retirement of existing debt and repayments of
the State Revolving Fund Loan for the project and shall identify the
dedicated source of funds, the basis of payment, and user charges for each
user class.

(c)

A draft sewer use ordinance. The sewer use ordinance shall prohibit new
connections of inflow sources, shall require that new sewers and
connections are properly designed and constructed, shall prohibit
combined sewers, shall prohibit the introduction of toxics or other
pollutants in amounts or concentrations that endanger public safety or
physical integrity of the treatment works, cause violation of effluent or
water quality limitations, or preclude the selection of the most cost
effective alternative for wastewater treatment and sludge disposal.

(d)

A complete procurement package for all eligible engineering, inspection,
architectural, administrative and legal services included in the SRF loan
application. Procurement packages for the facilities planning and
engineering design are not to be submitted. All procurement actions
related to the SRF Loan project shall comply with state law and Appendix
D of this regulation, and a certification from the applicant to this effect
shall be included in all procurement packages.

(e)

(1)

For all loan ineligible real property and easements (including
power and other utilities), completion of the appropriate
requirements of the federal Uniform Relocation Assistance and
Real Property Acquisition Policies Act, and certification forms
from both the loan applicant and the Title Counsel which indicate
that all such loan ineligible real property and easements for the

225

