E.

(3)

Upon return of the executed SRF loan offer to the Department staff, any
administration fee established in the loan agreement will be processed accordingly
and such fee will be paid to an appropriate Department administration fund.

(4)

Upon return of the executed SRF loan offer to the Department staff, the loan
recipient must then advertise the project for construction bids within the
timeframe established in the loan agreement. All procurement actions by the loan
recipient must comply with state law and Appendix D of this regulation.

(5)

Upon receipt of construction bids, the loan recipient must then submit (a) the
completed MBE/WBE documentation as required by Appendix E of this
regulation, (b) the completed bid package, and (c) a completed loan agreement
amendment request (to reflect as-bid construction costs, a construction
contingency as determined by the Department staff, and final allowances) to the
Department staff within the timeframes established in the loan agreement.

(6)

Upon receipt of the completed MBE/WBE documentation, bid package and
completed loan agreement amendment request from the loan recipient, the
Department staff will review these documents, determine whether any request for
an increased loan amount is justified, eligible, and that funds are available and,
after determining that all documents are approvable, will transmit to the loan
recipient an authority to award the construction contracts and an amended SRF
loan offer, which includes in the project budget (a) the approved as-bid amounts
for construction, (b) the final allowance amounts for facilities planning,
engineering design, and construction phase services in accordance with Appendix
B of this regulation, and (c) a construction contingency as determined by the
Department staff. After execution of the amended SRF loan offer, the SRF loan
amount may not be increased except for funding of a subsequent segment of a
segmented project as identified in the Intended Use Plan for a later fiscal year.
Any increased project costs in excess of the amended SRF loan amount must be
paid by the loan recipient from sources other than SRF loan funds.

Construction Phase
(1)

Awarding Construction Contracts and Preconstruction Conference. Upon receipt
of the authority to award the construction contracts and issue the notice to
proceed, the loan recipient must do so and must transmit a copy of the executed
construction contracts and the notice to proceed to the Department staff within the
timeframe specified in the loan agreement.
The loan recipient shall be responsible for assuring that every appropriate
procedure and incidental legal requirement is observed in advertising for bids and
awarding the construction contracts. The plans, specifications, and executed
contract documents shall not vary from those approved by the Department staff.
The loan recipient shall arrange and hold a preconstruction conference and shall
allow attendance and participation by the Department staff.
228

