to repay any previously paid amounts related to such work, within 30 days
of such notification. Interest may be charged on such delinquent
repayments after expiration of the 30-day period at the rate established in
Rule 4.3.G(6) of this regulation. Alternatively, the Department staff may
withhold such amounts from subsequent payment requests.

(5)

(c)

In those instances of dispute between the loan recipient or consulting
engineer and the Department staff as to whether material or equipment
furnished or work performed conforms with the terms of the construction
contract, the Executive Director or his designee may order the loan
recipient to reject unsatisfactory construction work, materials or
equipment and/or initiate other action provided for in the construction
contract, including suspension of work where necessary, until all disputed
issues are resolved in accordance with the terms.

(d)

In addition to normal testing procedures required of the loan recipient,
should questions arise concerning the construction work, materials or
equipment, the Department staff may require the loan recipient to perform
reasonable additional tests of construction materials, equipment or
processes which the Department staff determines to be necessary during
the construction of the project. All tests, whether for the Department staff
or the consulting engineer, shall conform to current American Water
Works Association, American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials, or American Society of Testing and Materials
published procedures, or similar criteria. The Department staff shall
specify which tests are applicable, if not described in the approved plans,
specifications, and contract documents. Samples for testing shall be
furnished free of cost, if so requested, to the Department staff upon request
on the construction site.

Change Orders. The loan recipient, consulting engineer and construction
contractor shall comply with the EPA publication Management of Construction
Change Orders. If after the construction contract has been executed it becomes
apparent that changes in such plans, specifications or contract documents are
necessary or appropriate, a proposed change order and justification shall be
submitted to the Department staff for approval, well in advance of the
construction change when possible. Approval of change orders may be secured
from the Department either before or after such work is initiated, at the discretion
of the loan recipient. The Department staff may identify eligible costs and may
approve the change order to the previously approved engineering plans,
specifications and contract documents including but not limited to additions or
deletions of work to be performed pursuant to the contract. Such change order
shall not change, vary or alter the basic purpose or effect of a project, shall be
technically adequate, the costs shall be justified and reasonable, and
eligible/ineligible costs shall be appropriately separated.

230

