All requests for change order approvals shall contain (a) sufficient information
and justification, (b) applicable plans or drawings, (c) construction contractor's
cost breakdowns, (d) the consulting engineer's analysis of the cost breakdown,
and (e) a memorandum of negotiations to enable the Department staff to review
the change order. Engineering computations and sketches shall also be included
if necessary to justify the change.
Justification for contract time extensions included in a change order shall be
prepared but need not be submitted to the Department unless the total time
extensions for the contract exceed 25% of the original contract time, in which
case justification for all time extensions shall be submitted to the Department for
review and approval. Construction work which occurs after the date representing
a 25% time extension to the original contract time is not allowable, unless
approved as such by the Department staff pursuant to review of the justification
for all time extensions.
(6)

Contractor Bankruptcy or Default. In the event of a contractor bankruptcy or
default, any agreements entered into with the bonding company (other than the
bonding company serving as general contractor or fully bonding another
contractor acting as their agent) shall be submitted for approval of the Department
staff. The loan recipient shall be responsible for assuring that every appropriate
procedure and incidental legal requirement is observed in advertising for bids and
re-awarding a construction contract, if this course of action is taken.

(7)

Construction Phase Submittals, Approvals, and Actions. The following
submittals, approvals and actions will be required during the construction phase of
the project. The Department staff may establish other timeframes within the loan
agreement when properly justified.
(a)

Within 90 days after loan award, (1) proof of applicable flood insurance
shall be submitted, (2) all construction related contracts shall be advertised
for bids and proof of such shall be submitted and (3) all local funds
necessary for the project shall be secured and proof of such shall be
submitted.

(b)

Within 14 days after receipt of bids, the loan recipient shall submit all
MBE/WBE, EEO and related documents.

(c)

Within 21 days after receipt of bids, the loan recipient shall submit all bid
packages.

(d)

Within 60 days after receipt of bids, the loan recipient shall execute and
submit all construction related contract documents and shall issue and
submit a notice to proceed on all such contracts.

(e)

By the date initially established in the loan agreement (which is based
upon approximately 50% of contract time), the loan recipient shall submit
231

