agreement and to determine final allowable costs, payments made thus far, and
any additional payments due the loan recipient or repayments due the State.
(2)

Upon completion of the SRF audit (or, if an audit is not performed, following
final payment of SRF loan funds to the loan recipient, or upon expiration of any
deadlines established by the loan agreement or the Department Staff), the
Department staff will transmit to the loan recipient a copy of the audit and a final
determination of allowable costs and payments due the loan recipient or
repayments due the State. This final determination will also establish a 30-day
appeal deadline, as required by 3. below, and will require repayment of any
overpayments with an interest penalty to begin accruing on the appeal deadline.
the interest penalty will be as established in Rule 4.3.G.(6) of this regulation.

(3)

Within 30 days after the date of the above final determination, the loan recipient
may submit a written appeal the final determination, including a written
justification of the reason for the appeal and supporting documentation for any
disputed costs of the final determination; otherwise, the final determination
allowable costs will become the final allowable costs for purposes of SRF loan
payments and the SRF loan repayment agreement.

(4)

Should an appeal be submitted in accordance with paragraph (3) above, the
disputes procedures established in Appendix G of this regulation will be followed
in order to resolve the dispute and establish the final allowable costs.

(5)

Upon expiration of the final determination appeal period, or upon resolution of a
dispute of the final determination, the Department staff will transmit to the loan
recipient a final SRF loan repayment agreement between the loan recipient and
the State Tax Commission as established by state law. The loan recipient shall
execute and submit to the Department the final loan repayment agreement within
the deadline established by the Department.

(6)

Upon receipt of an executed final repayment agreement from the loan recipient,
the Department staff will transmit the repayment agreement to the State Tax
Commission for execution and return to the Department staff.

(7)

Upon receipt of the executed final repayment agreement from the State Tax
Commission, the Department staff will transmit a copy to the loan recipient, and
repayment of the SRF loan will commence under the terms of the repayment
agreement.

(8)

On the date one year after initiation of operation of the project, which is defined
as the date of the final construction inspection performed by Department staff, the
loan recipient shall submit a certification that the project meets all of the project
performance standards, in accordance with the SRF loan agreement and
department requirements. If the loan recipient cannot certify that all project
performance standards are being met, a negative certification shall be submitted
on this date along with a corrective action report and an approvable schedule for
233

