The Department may revoke a CE at any time if significant adverse information becomes
available.
Finding of No Significant Impact on the Environment
If a project will not have any significant adverse environmental impact but does not qualify for a
CE, a finding of no significant impact (FONSI) will be issued, along with an environmental
assessment (EA). See Attachments 2 and 3.
The emphasis of the EA will be to summarize the need for the project (i.e., why the "no action"
alternative is not acceptable) and to discuss the environmental impacts of the chosen alternative.
The EA is not intended to be a summary of the facilities plan. The EA will not include a list of
items eligible for funding.
All alternatives that were studied will be listed, but only the no action alternative and the chosen
alternative will be described in detail. The reasons for choosing the chosen alternative will be
discussed.
The FONSI will be issued to the appropriate contact agencies and will be published in the
Jackson Clarion-Ledger and an appropriate local newspaper. See Attachment 2.
The Department will generally wait 30 days after issuing a FONSI before funding a project.
However, a facilities plan may be conditionally approved and a loan agreement may be
conditionally offered immediately after issuing the FONSI, if necessary. In such a case, no funds
will be transferred to the loan recipient and authority to award construction contracts will not be
given until the 30 day period has expired and all substantial adverse comments have been
addressed. There will be no exceptions.
Amendment to a Finding of No Significant Impact on the Environment
FONSI amendments are occasionally needed to describe changes to proposed facilities that have
already been described in a FONSI. Attachment 2 shows the amendment format. The EA that
accompanies the amendment will describe the changes, the reasons for the changes, and any new
impacts on the environment due to the changes. The EA amendment is intended to be read in
conjunction with the original EA and is not a self supporting document. The original EA will be
reissued with the EA amendment in those cases where it is deemed to be necessary to assure
clarity.
The 30 day period requirement will be the same as for a FONSI.
Environmental Impact Statement
If the Department determines that an environmental impact statement (EIS) is needed, it will be
prepared in accordance with EPA regulation 40 CFR Part 6.

243

