Reaffirmation of an Environmental Action
If five years will have passed between the issuance of a CE, FONSI, Amendment to a FONSI, or
an EIS and the award of SRF funding, the environmental impact of the project will be
reevaluated.
If there have been no significant changes, the Department will issue a reaffirmation of the
environmental action. See Attachment 4. The 30 day period requirement will be the same as for
a CE.
If the original environmental action cannot be reaffirmed, the Department will issue a FONSI or
an Amendment, as appropriate. The 30 day period requirement will be the same as for a FONSI.
A reaffirmation will not be required when a FONSI is over five years old but the most recent
Amendment is less than five years old.
No Action
All SRF projects will receive a CE, FONSI, or EIS. If one of those documents has been issued
and there are then significant changes in the project, those changes will be described in an
Amendment. Some changes are minor, however, and the Department may determine that a
separate Amendment will not be needed. Such changes include, but are no limited to:
a.

Addition of sewer system rehabilitation.

b.

Changes in the size of pump stations, interceptors, or collectors.

c.

Minor changes in the size of unit processes.

d.

Minor rerouting of sewer lines when the new route i) will be mostly on public
property, and ii) will not adversely affect cultural resources, habitats of
endangered or threatened species, or environmentally important natural resource
areas. All affected property owners must be notified by the loan recipient.

e.

Changes in the average monthly user charge.

Public Participation
A loan recipient will be encouraged to hold a public hearing when the alternatives have been
determined but before a chosen alternative has been selected and will be required to hold a public
hearing before the facilities plan has been fully adopted. The hearings shall be advertised in the
Jackson Clarion-Ledger and an appropriate local newspaper at least 30 days before the hearing.
The recipient is also encouraged to notify local television and radio stations.
Topics to be discussed at the hearing include the facilities to be built, why they are needed,
where they will be built, how much they will cost, the average monthly user charge, and the
environmental impact.
244

