NH3-N, mg/l
DO, mg/l
Residual Cl2, mg/l
SS, mg/l
FC, number/100 ml
Receiving stream:
B.

Maps
Include a map or maps showing the location of the existing and proposed WWTP
and major interceptors. Maps showing the location of individual collection lines
will not usually be included. A schematic diagram of the WWTP will be included only if
a narrative description of the unit processes will not give an accurate picture of the
facilities to be built.

C.

Existing Facilities
Describe the existing collection and treatment facilities. Describe the loadings on the unit
processes if the information is pertinent to the need for the proposed project.

D.

Need for the Project
Explain why the existing facilities will not be able to protect human health or the
environment at future design flow and loading when the facilities are operated according
to optimum O & M procedures.
In many cases the NPDES effluent limits will have been changed from secondary to
tertiary limits. For example, if a town has an existing lagoon and the new limit requires a
BOD of less than 30 mg/l, a simple statement that a lagoon cannot be expected to meet
the new limit will establish a need.
A letter from the Mississippi State Department of Health stating that an area has a
significant number of failing septic tank systems and further stating that septic tank
systems cannot be expected to work because of small lot sizes or low soil permeability
will establish a need.

E.

Analysis of Alternatives
Discuss why the no action alternative was not chosen. List, but do not discuss, all of the
other alternatives that were studied. State which alternative was chosen. Describe why it
was chosen. In many cases a simple statement that the chosen alternative has the lowest
present worth, will meet the effluent limits, and is environmentally sound will be
adequate.

F.

Proposed Facilities
List the unit processes that will be used for wastewater and sludge treatment and describe
any that are unusual. State the design flow.
249

