APPENDIX K
Intergovernmental Review Process
The following outlines the Department's requirements for compliance with the
Intergovernmental Review Process for State Revolving Fund Loan Program projects in
Mississippi. These actions and deadlines are consistent with that required by the Priority
System. The intergovernmental review agencies are as follows:
1.

Department of Archives and History (For Archaeological/Cultural Review)

2.

Natural Heritage Program (For Vegetative/Wildlife Review)

3.

Army Corps of Engineers, Regulatory Functions Branch (For Wetlands and
Section 10 Review)

4.

Bureau of Marine Resources (Jackson, Harrison, and Hancock County Projects
Only; for Coastal Barriers Resources Act Review)
U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Jackson, Harrison, and Hancock County Projects
only; for Coastal Barriers Resources Act Review)

Addresses of these agencies are attached.
Facilities Planning
During preparation of the draft facilities plan, the appropriate intergovernmental review agencies
should be consulted about the proposed project area concerning the existence of any known or
possible archaeological/cultural sites, endangered vegetation/wildlife, wetlands, shellfish/coastal
program impacts, or coastal barriers resources impact, with their input addressed in the draft
facilities plan. If feasible, the project should avoid negative impacts on areas for which a
concern has been expressed by an intergovernmental review agency. If not feasible to avoid
negative impacts on these areas, the appropriate intergovernmental review agency should be
consulted concerning the probability of obtaining clearance to construct the selected plan.
Where an agency expresses substantial concern that clearance of the selected plan may not be
obtained, appropriate modification, mitigation, and/or other sites should be pursued in
coordination with the Department and the appropriate agency prior to submission of the draft
facilities plan. This effort should avoid completion of a draft facilities plan which may not later
receive intergovernmental review clearance. However, it should be recognized that subsequent
surveys, applications, or other information may result in further intergovernmental review
agency concerns which must be addressed prior to clearance.
By the deadline for the draft facilities plan to be submitted to the Department of Environmental
Quality, the draft facilities plan shall also be submitted to the appropriate intergovernmental
review agencies with a request for written comments and a determination on the need for
262

