(4)

(b)

a proposed schedule of compliance for meeting the proposed effluent
limitations, including interim dates and requirements, if applicable, shall
be established (schedules of compliance are impermissible for water
quality based limitations, except when new, more stringent standards are
adopted); and

(c)

a description of any other proposed restrictions or other conditions
determined necessary or appropriate by the Executive Director or his/her
authorized representative which will significantly affect the discharge.

The Executive Director or his/her authorized representative shall prepare a draft
permit based upon the preliminary determinations made pursuant to Rule 1.1.3.A.
and C
The draft permit shall be mailed to the applicant for comment, except in the case
of an NPDES general permit or a State general permit. In the case of an NPDES
or UIC permit, the draft permit shall be mailed to the Regional Administrator (or
his/her designee) before public notice of the draft NPDES or UIC permit. The
Regional Administrator (or his/her designee) may waive his right to comment on
draft permits, except for general permits.

B.

C.

(5)

Any request for variances as defined in 40 CFR 124.62(a) must be submitted
pursuant to 40 CFR 124.62(e), which is incorporated herein and adopted by
reference.

(6)

The draft permit requirements contained in 40 CFR 124.6(a), (c), (d), and (e) as of
the date the application is deemed complete are incorporated herein and adopted
by reference with respect to NPDES permits and UIC permits.

Public Notice of Draft Permits and Preliminary Determinations
(1)

The Executive Director or his/her authorized representative shall prepare a public
notice of a draft NPDES or UIC permit, or a State permit as deemed appropriate
by the Permit Board. The notice shall be made in accordance with public notice
methods contained in 40 CFR, 124.l0(c) and (d) which are incorporated herein
and adopted by reference.

(2)

A copy of the notice shall be available at the Department office in Jackson, MS.
Any person may forward a written request for a copy of the notice, which will be
mailed to him.

Public Notice and Fact Sheets
(1)

Public Notice: Contents and Information

27

