(26)

Interlocal Agreement - An agreement or contract between the loan
applicant/recipient and other entities relating to use, enforcement, or finances of
the project or treatment works, which may be necessary to ensure completion of a
useful project.

(27)

Loan Agreement - A legal and binding agreement between the Department and
the loan recipient through which the Department provides WPCELF funds for
allowable assistance and the recipient promises to repay the principal sum and
interest back to the WPCELF over a period not to exceed 10 years at an interest
rate established by the Commission.

(28)

Loan Applicant - An eligible applicant, as defined above, that makes a WPCELF
loan application for assistance from the Department.

(29)

Loan Recipient - An eligible applicant, as defined above, that receives a WPCELF
loan from the Department.

(30)

May - Whenever used in the context of an action to be taken by the loan recipient,
the word "may" will be interpreted as optional but is not mandatory.

(31)

May not - Whenever used in the context of an action by the loan recipient, such
an action is prohibited by these regulations.

(32)

Must - Whenever used in the context of an action to be taken by the loan
recipient, the word "must" will be interpreted as mandatory.

(33)

Nonpoint Source - Pollution caused by diffuse source(s) that are not regulated as
point source(s) and normally is associated with agriculture, silviculture, urban
runoff and runoff from construction activities, etc.

(34)

Overflows and Bypasses - Polluted water, such as sewage, which overflows or
bypasses any portion of the treatment works prior to complete and final treatment
and discharge in accordance with the permit.

(35)

Permit - Unless otherwise specified, the authority granted by the Mississippi
Environmental Quality Permit Board or their designated staff to discharge treated
wastewater into or adjacent to waters of the state in accordance with the
stipulations of the relevant National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES) or State Operating Permit.

(36)

Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents - The engineering description of
the project including engineering drawings, maps, technical specifications, design
reports and construction contract documents in sufficient detail to allow
contractors to adequately construct the work.

275

