(37)

Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents Addendum - Any change made to
the Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents after advertisement of the
documents for bidding, but prior to opening of the bids.

(38)

Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents Revision or Amendment . Any
change made to the Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents after
completion of the initial documents, but prior to advertisement of the documents
for bidding.

(39)

Point Source - Any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, including, but
not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete fissure,
container, concentrated animal feeding operation, vehicle, or vessel or other
floating craft from which pollutants are or may be discharged. This term does not
include agricultural stormwater discharges and return flows from irrigated
agriculture.

(40)

Project - The scope of work for which assistance is awarded under the WPCELF.

(41)

Project Completion - The date of the final construction observation, as performed
by the Department, for the purpose of an allowability determination.

(42)

Protest - A written complaint to the loan recipient concerning the loan recipient's
solicitation or award of a contract. The protest must be filed with the loan
recipient by a party with a direct financial interest adversely affected by a loan
recipient's procurement action.

(43)

Record Drawings - A final, post-construction set of reproducible design plans,
revised to describe the project as it was actually constructed, including all
revisions, addenda, change orders and field changes that affect items shown on
the drawings.

(44)

Repayment - Principal and interest repayments on WPCELF loans as established
in the loan agreement.

(45)

Service line - A conduit intended to carry wastewater, together with minor
quantities of infiltration and inflow that are not admitted intentionally, from
residences, public buildings and businesses to a collector sewer.

(46)

Sewer - Any pipe, conduit, or related appurtenance used to convey sewage or
wastewater, including collectors, interceptors, force mains and service lines.

(47)

Title Counsel or Legal Counsel - The attorney(s) of record, legally practicing,
who provide(s) legal advice and certifications relating to the project for the loan
applicant/recipient.

276

