(48)

Treatment Works (or Water Pollution Control System) - Any devices and systems
which are used in the storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of waste,
including interceptor sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection systems, pumping,
power, and other equipment and their appurtenances; extensions, improvements,
remodeling, additions, and alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a
reliable recycled supply such as standby treatment units; and any works, including
site acquisition of the land used for or in connection with the treatment works; and
any plant, disposal field, lagoon, canal, incinerator, or other facilities installed for
the purpose of treating, neutralizing or stabilizing wastewater or nonpoint source
pollution or facilities to provide for the collection, control and disposal of
wastewater or nonpoint source pollution.

(49)

Unilateral Change Order - Change order executed only by the loan recipient, and
identified as such, in accordance with the contract documents.

(50)

User Charge Ordinance - A legally enforceable ordinance, regulation or corporate
resolution enacted by the loan recipient which includes, at least by reference, the
User Charge System, and establishes user charge rates to generate adequate
revenues to cover all costs of the treatment works, as required by the User Charge
System.

(51)

User Charge System - That system by which the loan recipient charges users of
the treatment works, user rates that produce adequate revenues required for
operation, maintenance, replacement of equipment, retirement of existing debt,
and repayment of the WPCELF loan for the project.

(52)

Water Pollution Control System - see "Treatment Works."

(53)

Will - Whenever used in the context of an action to be taken by the loan recipient,
the word "will" is to be interpreted as mandatory.

(54)

WPALP - Water Pollution Abatement Loan Program

(55)

WPCELF - Water Pollution Control Emergency Loan Fund.

(56)

WPCRLF - Water Pollution Control Revolving Loan Fund.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-17-81 through 49-17-89, 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.
Rule 5.2 Program Requirements.
A.

Eligible Applicant Determination. To be eligible for financial assistance, an applicant
must meet the definition of an eligible applicant as described in Rule 5.1.B.(14) of these
regulations, as determined by the Department.

277

