B.

C.

WPCELF Uses. The Emergency Loan Fund may be used for the following purposes, as
determined by the Commission:
(1)

To make loans to eligible applicants for projects that meet the definition of an
emergency, for the purpose of making necessary repairs to existing water
pollution control systems to meet the emergency;

(2)

To make loans to eligible applicants for projects that meet the definition of an
emergency, for the purpose of completing construction needed to provide a
permanent correction to the problems which caused the emergency;

(3)

For the reasonable costs of administering the WPCELF program, as allowed by
state law; and

(4)

To earn interest on fund accounts.

Project Priority. These funds will be obligated on a first-come, first-served basis in order
of those eligible applicants which complete all actions necessary to receive a loan award
for eligible projects meeting the definition of an emergency, as defined in these
regulations.
The Executive Director will determine whether a proposed project meets the definition of
an emergency project and whether all actions necessary for loan award have been
completed.

D.

WPCELF Financing. The WPCELF has been established to provide loans to assist
eligible applicants in making emergency repairs to existing water pollution control
systems and may, with Department approval, include new construction needed to provide
a permanent correction to the problems which caused the emergency. Basic WPCELF
financing requirements are as follows:
(1)

WPCELF loans may not exceed $350,000, as established by state law

(2)

Loans will be made at the interest rate(s), terms and amounts determined by the
Commission, and as further established in the WPCELF loan agreement and
repayment agreement.

(3)

Periodic principal and interest repayments will commence as further described in
Rule 5.3.F of these regulations, and all loans will be fully amortized not later
than ten (10) years after project completion.

(4)

Funds will not be disbursed from the emergency loan fund without first entering
into a legal and binding loan agreement with the Commission.

(5)

The fund will be credited with all repayments of principal and interest on all
loans.
278

