The contractor, engineer, and the loan recipient must furnish the Department with
every reasonable opportunity and means for observing whether the work as
performed appears to be in accordance with the requirements of the loan
agreement. The Department is authorized to observe and require submission of
daily logs, record drawings, file notes, and any other documents prepared by any
party in relation to the WPCELF funded project.
(4)

Observation of Materials and Equipment. The Department is also authorized to
observe all equipment and materials furnished, including observation of the
preparation or manufacture of the equipment and materials to be used.

(5)

Construction Deficiencies
(a)

In the event construction procedures, materials or equipment appear to the
Department to be substandard, otherwise unsatisfactory, and/or not in
conformity with these regulations or the loan agreement, the Department
may determine such work unallowable for WPCELF loan participation,
unless the loan recipient takes such action, through the engineer if
applicable, in the manner provided for in the construction contract to
correct any such deficiencies.

(b)

The Department may immediately begin withholding WPCELF loan
payments should such substandard or unsatisfactory construction work,
materials, or equipment become apparent and may require the loan
recipient to repay any previously paid amounts related to such work,
within 30 days of such notification. Interest may be charged on such
delinquent repayments after expiration of the 30-day period at the rate
established in Rule 5.3.E.(6) of these regulations. Alternatively, the
Department may withhold such amounts from subsequent payment
requests.

(c)

In addition to normal testing procedures required of the loan recipient,
should questions arise concerning the construction work, materials, or
equipment, for WPCELF loan allowability purposes the Department may
request the loan recipient to perform reasonable additional tests of
construction materials, equipment, or processes which the Department
determines to be necessary to answer such questions during or after the
construction of the project. All tests, whether for the Department or the
engineer, must conform to current American Water Works Association,
American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, or
American Society of Testing and Materials published procedures, or
similar acceptable criteria. The Department will specify which tests are
applicable, if not described in the plans, specifications, and contract
documents for WPCELF loan allowability purposes. Samples for such
testing must be furnished free of cost to the Department upon request.
284

