(6)

Change Orders
(a)

General. In the event a determination is made by a loan recipient after a
construction contract is let that changes or modifications to the original
contract are necessary or would better serve the purpose of the loan
recipient, the loan recipient may, at its discretion, execute such change
orders pertaining to the construction that are necessary under the
circumstances, as provided in the contract documents and when in
accordance with state purchasing law. Change orders must not change,
vary, or alter the basic purpose or effect of the project unless allowed by
the Department. Changes must be technically adequate, the costs and time
extensions must be necessary and reasonable, and allowable/unallowable
costs must be appropriately separated.

(b)

Change Order Submittals. After completion of the claims resolution
and/or change order negotiation process between the loan recipient and the
contractor, such changes on appropriate fully executed documents must be
submitted to the Department in order to obtain a WPCELF loan
eligibility/allowability determination.
All change order submittals shall include sufficient documentation for the
Department's eligibility/allowability and technical review, as determined
by the Department.
If any change order is submitted to the Department that is not complete
and fully executed by the loan recipient, and the contractor and the
engineer when appropriate, the Department may return such change order
without review. However, unilateral change orders executed by the loan
recipient and the engineer when appropriate, and identified as such, that
are issued in accordance with the contract documents may be submitted to
the Department in order to obtain a WPCELF loan eligibility/allowability
determination.
The loan recipient may submit a complete and fully executed change order
which has been executed conditional upon a positive WPCELF loan
eligibility/allowability determination by the Department.
If possible, the allowability determination of a change order should be
secured from the Department before the work is started, particularly for
change orders requesting time extensions as per Rule 5.3.C.(6)(c) below.
This determination may also be secured after the work is started; however,
the loan recipient must bear the cost if the work is determined to be
ineligible or unallowable.

285

