When the eligible cost of a project will be significantly reduced by a
change order or change orders, the Department may issue an amendment
to the loan agreement decreasing the loan amount, and the loan recipient
must execute such amendment within the time frame established by the
Department.
(c)

Time Extensions. Change orders which include time extensions and/or
documentation that the loan recipient is implementing all legal remedies
provided in the contract documents for failure to complete construction
when required, must be submitted to the Department prior to the date of
the Department's final construction observation, as specified in Rule
5.3.D.(1) of these regulations. Otherwise, construction and constructionrelated work which occurs after the current allowable contract completion
date will be unallowable. Justification for contract time extensions
included in a change order must be prepared, but need not be submitted to
the Department unless the total time extensions for the contract exceed
25% of the original contract time, in which case justification for all time
extensions must be submitted to the Department for an allowability
determination.
Construction and construction-related work which occurs after the date
representing a 25% time extension to the original contract time are
allowable only to the extent determined as such by the Department,
pursuant to review of the justification for all time extension change orders.
Construction and construction-related work which occurs after the date
representing a 25% time extension to the original contract time, and for
which a time extension change order cannot be adequately justified by the
loan recipient and determined allowable by the Department, is not
allowable unless the Department determines that the loan recipient is
implementing all legal remedies provided in the contract documents for
failure to complete construction when required.

(7)

Contract Claims. The Department is not a party to any contract between the
WPCELF loan recipient and the construction contractor(s), the consulting
engineer(s), the attorney(s), the equipment supplier(s), the subcontractor(s) or any
other parties.
Upon execution of any contract between the loan recipient and any other party in
regard to a WPCELF funded project, the Department does not assume any
authorities, duties, responsibilities, or liabilities under such a contract.
The Department does not have any authority, duty, responsibility, or liability in
contract claims identification, negotiation, resolution, or any other actions
regarding contract claims under the contract(s) between the loan recipient and any
other party.
286

