No actions taken by the Department, either directly or indirectly, in regard to the
WPCELF loan funded project constitute or establish any determinations,
authority, duty, responsibility, or liability under the contract(s) between the loan
recipient and any other party.
The loan recipient and the contracting party must resolve all claims and contract
disputes by negotiation, arbitration, litigation, or other means as provided in the
contract documents and state law, prior to submission of any change order or
other documents to the Department, in order to obtain a WPCELF loan
eligibility/allowability determination.
(8)

D.

Contractor's Bankruptcy or Default. In the event of a contractor's bankruptcy or
default, any proposed agreements with the bonding company (other than the
bonding company serving as general contractor or fully bonding another
contractor acting as their agent) must be submitted for WPCELF loan allowability
determination by the Department prior to execution. If the loan recipient
determines that re-award of the construction contract, or a portion thereof, is
necessary due to contractor bankruptcy or default, such proposed re-award
contracts must be submitted for WPCELF loan allowability determination by the
Department prior to execution. The loan recipient will be responsible for assuring
that every appropriate procedure and incidental legal requirement is observed in
advertising for bids or otherwise re-awarding a construction contract if this course
of action is taken.

Post Construction Phase
(1)

Within 10 days after construction completion of each construction contract, the
loan recipient must submit a determination of construction completion and must
request a final construction observation by the Department.
All change orders which include time extensions and/or documentation that the
loan recipient is implementing all legal remedies provided in the contract
documents for failure to complete construction when required must be submitted
to the Department prior to the date of the Department's final construction
observation; otherwise, construction and construction-related work which occurs
after the current allowable contract completion date will be unallowable.
The final construction observation may be delayed by no more than 30 days after
the current construction completion date, unless further delayed by the
Department pursuant to review of the loan recipient's request and justification for
such delay. Should the Department staff decide that the determination of
construction completion and request for final construction observation are being
unreasonably delayed, a final construction observation may be immediately
performed by the Department.

287

