above, the disputes procedures established in Appendix D of these regulations
will be followed in order to resolve the dispute and establish the final allowable
costs.

E.

(8)

If an appeal is not submitted prior to expiration of the final determination appeal
period, the loan recipient must execute and submit the final loan agreement to the
Department within the deadline established by the Department.

(9)

Upon receipt of the executed final loan agreement from the loan recipient, the
Department will transmit it to the State Tax Commission for execution and return
to the Department.

(10)

Upon receipt of the executed final loan agreement from the State Tax
Commission, the Department will transmit a copy to the loan recipient, and
repayment of the WPCELF loan will commence under the terms of the loan
agreement.

Payments to WPCELF Loan Recipients. Payments from the WPCELF may be made to
WPCELF loan recipients under the following conditions:
(1)

Payments may be requested by and may be made only to loan recipients, in
accordance with the WPCELF loan agreement and the loan recipient's contracts
for eligible and allowable services and construction for work performed within
the project scope and budget period.

(2)

Excluding the payment request for the administration fee, payments may be
requested no more often than on a monthly basis, except as required by state law.
Payment requests cannot include costs incurred during two different state fiscal
years; therefore, two payment requests may be submitted in July: one for costs
incurred through June 30th and a second for costs incurred after June 30th.

(3)

The loan recipient must deduct from all WPCELF payment requests the amount
of funds provided or to be provided from all other state and federal agency
funding sources for allowable WPCELF project costs.

(4)

Payment requests must be submitted by the loan recipient to the Department and
must include the following:
(a)

Completed WPCELF payment request form;

(b)

Cumulative invoices, which clearly identify scope, time period and the
particular project or contract, for all allowable costs for which payment is
requested, except that invoices need not be submitted for any
administration fee included in the loan agreement; and

289

