(4)

(a)

A fact sheet shall be prepared for every NPDES or UIC permit required to
have a fact sheet under 40 CFR 124.8(a).

(b)

The Executive Director or his/her designee may prepare a fact sheet for
any existing or proposed discharge if he deems the discharge to be of
significant importance to warrant additional information for public
comment.

(c)

A copy of the fact sheet shall be available at the Department office in
Jackson, MS. Any person may forward a written request for a copy of the
fact sheet, which will be mailed to him.

Fact Sheets on Draft Permits: Contents and Information
The fact sheet prepared pursuant to Section C.3. of this Rule shall contain, but is
not limited to, the following information:
(a)

A brief description of the type of facility or activity which is subject of the
draft permit.

(b)

A sketch or detailed description of the location of the existing or proposed
discharge described in the draft permit. In the case of general permits, a
description of geographical areas and/or allowable receiving waters shall
be provided.

(c)

A brief description of the type and quantity of wastes which are proposed
to be treated, discharged, or otherwise disposed.

(d)

A brief summary of the basis for the draft permit conditions including
references to applicable statutory or regulatory provisions and appropriate
supporting references to the administrative record required by 40 CFR
124.9 (for EPA-issued permits).

(e)

For NPDES draft permits, a concise citation of water quality standards,
effluent limitations and mixing zones, if applicable, to be applied to the
discharge and the uses for which the receiving waters have been classified.

(f)

A complete description of the procedures used by the Permit Board to
formulate final determinations on the draft permit and the existing or
proposed discharges, including the 30-day comment period on the public
notice, procedures for requesting a public hearing on the draft permit
pursuant to Section G. of this Rule, and other procedures to facilitate
public comment and participation in the formulation of final
determinations by the Permit Board.

(g)

The name and telephone number of a person to contact for further
information.
29

