(c)
(5)

(6)

F.

Any other documents required by the loan agreement;

The timing of WPCELF payments will be as follows, provided the loan recipient
is in compliance with the requirements of these regulations and all provisions of
the WPCELF loan agreement.
(a)

Payment for the administration fee must be the first payment request
submitted and will be paid to the appropriate Department administration
fund.

(b)

Payments for design and construction phase services may be requested and
paid based upon incurred allowable costs. Such requested payment
amounts are subject to verification by the Department.

(c)

Payments for allowable construction work may be requested and paid
based upon in-place work or delivered materials and equipment as
specified in the construction contract(s), and as supported by invoices and
verified as accurate by the consulting engineer, if applicable, and the loan
recipient, less the retainage withheld by the loan recipient. Such requested
payment amounts are subject to verification by the Department.

(d)

Payments for allowable land may be requested and paid immediately after
loan agreement execution, provided the Department has approved the
purchase price and proof of the purchase price has been submitted with the
payment request.

(e)

The final loan payment will not be made until submission of all documents
required by Rule 5.3.D.(2), enactment of the user charge ordinance
as required by Rule 5.3.A.(3)(f), and determination that the loan
recipient is in compliance with all other applicable provisions of the
WPCELF loan agreement.

Any payments made to the loan recipient, which are at any time determined by
Department to be for costs not in accordance with the WPCELF loan agreement,
for ineligible or unallowable costs, or for costs related to waste, fraud, abuse or
illegal acts under state or federal law, must be repaid to the WPCELF fund within
30 days of such notification by the Department. Interest may be charged on such
delinquent repayments after expiration of the 30-day period at a rate of ten (10)
percent per annum, compounded monthly. Alternatively, the Department may
withhold such amounts from subsequent payment requests.

WPCELF Loan Repayment Requirements. All WPCELF loan repayments are subject to
the following requirements:
(1)

Interest on amounts paid to the loan recipient will commence on the original
construction contract completion date.
290

