(b)

The costs for purchase and/or transportation of biological seeding
materials required for expeditiously initiating the treatment process
operation.

(c)

The cost of shop equipment installed at the treatment works necessary to
the operation of the works. The need will depend on the specific item, its
frequency of expected use, and the size and complexity of the treatment
facility. Undoubtedly, larger treatment facilities will have a greater need
for installed shop equipment than smaller ones. Where the proposed items
of equipment are inappropriate to the size and/or complexity of the
treatment works, the Department may determine that the proposed
equipment is unallowable.

(d)

The costs of necessary and reasonable safety equipment, provided the
equipment meets applicable federal, state, local or industry safety
requirements.

(e)

The costs of necessary and reasonable collection system maintenance
equipment.

(f)

The cost of mobile equipment necessary for the operation of the overall
wastewater treatment facility, transmission of wastewater or sludge, or for
the maintenance of equipment. These items include:
i.

Portable stand-by generators.

ii.

Large portable emergency pumps to provide "pump-around"
capability in the event of pump station failure or pipeline breaks.

iii.

Sludge or septage tankers, trailers, and other vehicles having as
their sole purpose the transportation of liquid or dewatered wastes
from the collector point (including individual or onsite systems) to
the treatment facility or disposal site.

iv.

Tillage, planting and harvesting equipment that is documented as
necessary and reasonable for producing the crops which are an
integral part of the land treatment process, and other vehicles
demonstrated necessary to the facility and approved in advance by
the Department.

Mobile equipment necessary for the operation of the overall wastewater
treatment facility may also include vehicles necessary for the daily
removal and disposal of grit. While vehicles used for other purposes (e.g.,
sludge tanks or trailers) would normally serve this purpose, large facilities
may have a sufficient need to justify a separate vehicle to be used solely
for the transportation and disposal of grit. Additionally, for projects which
297

