(2)

(e)

Start-up services for onsite training of operating personnel in operation
and control of specific treatment processes, laboratory procedures, and
maintenance and records management, provided these costs are incurred
prior to the end of the 30 day period established in Rule 5.3.D.(2) of these
regulations.

(f)

Administrative services associated with the construction of the project and
administering the WCPELF loan.

(g)

Professional liability insurance premiums for a provider of professional
services are allowable only for insurance which the provider maintains in
connection with the general conduct of its business. The types and extent
of coverage must be in accordance with sound business practice, and the
rates and premiums must be reasonable under the circumstances. The
maintenance of professional liability insurance is a sound business
practice, and the premiums are allowable, but only as part of an indirect
cost agreement.

(h)

The cost of services, other than engineering services during construction,
such as railway or highway flagmen, or utility or highway inspectors,
required during the construction of the project, are allowable provided
that:
i.

The entity responsible for the affected railway, highway, or utility
requires such services for all parties conducting similar types of
work, regardless of the source of construction funding for the
project, or the services are required by law.

ii.

The project work requiring such services is allowable, and is
included in the scope of the approved project.

iii.

The cost of such services has not been included in the construction
contractor's bid price.

iv.

The cost of such services is incurred directly by the loan recipient.

v.

The cost is reasonable.

Unallowable costs include:
(a)

Except as provided in Appendix A, Section D.(2)(a), engineering services
or other services necessary to correct defects in design drawings and
specifications, or other subagreement documents.

(b)

Public Liaison Services.

302

