(2)

ii.

The primary purpose of the acquisition is not the reduction,
elimination, or redistribution of public or private debt; and

iii.

The acquisition does not circumvent federal, state or local
requirements.

Unallowable costs include:
For parcels costing over $10,000, any amount paid by the loan recipient for
allowable land in excess of fair market value, based on an appraisal or any
condemnation proceeding. For parcels costing over $10,000, an amount other than
the determination of fair market value may be found allowable through an
administrative settlement if the loan recipient provides sufficient written
documentation to the Department that it is reasonable, prudent and in the public
interest, such as when negotiated purchase is unsuccessful and condemnation
action may entail a long delay or excessive costs. Documentation may include
evidence of purchase negotiations, real property sales data, estimated court
settlement and legal costs based on previous condemnation proceedings.

J.

Miscellaneous Costs
(1)

Allowable costs include:
(a)

The costs the loan recipient incurs for equipment, material and supplies
necessary for the construction project.

(b)

Unless otherwise specified in these regulations, the costs of meeting
specific legal requirements directly applicable to the project.

(c)

Costs for necessary non-local travel directly related to accomplishment of
project objectives, such as costs of loan recipient employees attending
training workshops/seminars that are necessary to provide instruction in
administrative, fiscal or contracting procedures required to complete the
construction of the treatment works. Travel not directly related to a
specific project, such as travel to professional meetings, symposia,
technology transfer seminars, lectures, etc., may be recovered only under
an indirect cost agreement.

(d)

Cost of royalties for the use of, or rights in, a patented process or product.
Reasonable royalties associated with the procurement of the right to use,
or the rights in, a patented product, apparatus, or process are allowable
costs, provided that they are:
i.

necessary,

306

