APPENDIX I
Related Laws and Regulations
During the planning, design, construction, and operation of the project, the loan recipient shall
comply with all applicable laws and regulations and shall acquire all applicable permits as
described in the Departmental publication “Environmental Permit Directory”, or its successor.
The applicable related laws and regulations are listed below. The WPCELF regulations are not
complete without these laws and regulations.
A.

Guidelines for Review of Siting Criteria in Applications for Air and Water Pollution
Control Permits. The loan recipient shall also comply with the following related
requirements:
(1)

All design plans submitted to the Department for review shall clearly display that
a 150-foot buffer zone between the treatment facility and the adjoining property l
lines (unless exempted by zoning) is provided. This shall be shown on a plan view
of the treatment facility site. If it is not possible to provide a 150-foot buffer zone,
a written waiver from the adjoining property owners shall also accompany the
design plans. When a waiver is necessary, it is strongly suggested that this be
obtained prior to substantial work on the treatment facility design.

(2)

An NPDES or State Operating Permit application shall accompany all design
plans for wastewater treatment facilities, if a permit or permit modification is
required.

(3)

All appraisals, negotiations, purchase agreements, and site certificates shall
include the required buffer zones, unless a waiver was previously submitted along
with the design plans.

(4)

In cases where a needed waiver cannot be obtained, the loan recipient may pursue
a variance from the 150-foot buffer zone requirement as provided in section 3.(c)
of the Permit Board's "Guidelines for Review of Siting Criteria in Applications
for Air and Water Pollution Control Permits."

B.

State of Mississippi Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate, Interstate and Coastal Waters

C.

Mississippi Nonhazardous Waste Management Regulations

D.

Mississippi Coastal Wetlands Protection Law, Section 49-27-1 through 49-27-69,
Mississippi Code Annotated, (Supp. 1989), et seq.

E.

Mississippi Air Emission Regulations for the Prevention, Abatement, and Control of Air
Contaminants

F.

Wastewater Permit Regulations for National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
317

