Rule 6.1 Introductory Provisions.
A.

Scope of Regulations. These regulations, adopted pursuant to Sections 49-17-81 through
89, Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended, shall govern the Mississippi Water Pollution
Control Revolving Loan Fund (WPCRLF) Program beginning in federal fiscal year 2001.
These WPCRLF regulations may be superceded by the WPCRLF loan agreement and
repayment agreement when such a variance is determined prudent by the Executive
Director and when not in conflict with any state or federal law, regulation, or executive
order.

B.

Federal Equivalence and Cross-Cutter Requirements. Federal regulation 40 CFR
35.3135(f) requires that “equivalency” projects funded under the State Water Pollution
Control Revolving Fund must comply with sixteen specific requirements of Title II (the
EPA Construction Grants Program) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.
“Equivalency” projects are generally defined as wastewater projects constructed with
funds which equal the amount of the federal grants to the State for this program.
Similarly, 40 CFR 35.3145 requires that the State must also require all recipients of funds
which equal the amount of the federal grants to the State to comply with certain other
“cross-cutting” federal authorities. Cross-cutting authorities are federal laws and
authorities that apply to these projects independent of the federal Water Pollution Act and
subsequent amendments.
Since the beginning of this program in FY-89 and continuing through FY-00, the
Department has required that all projects receiving loan funding meet federal equivalency
and cross-cutter requirements, and has banked the amount of these loan awards in excess
of the federal capitalization grants toward meeting equivalency and cross-cutter
requirements of future federal capitalization grants. The Department has determined that
the amount of loans awarded in excess of the federal capitalization grants through FY-00
should equal or exceed the federal capitalization grants expected for this program from
FY-01 and after. Accordingly, the Department has determined that projects funded in
FY-01 and after will not be required to meet all federal equivalency and cross-cutter
requirements.
These regulations apply to projects that receive loan awards in FY-01 and after. Thus,
almost all of these federal equivalency and cross-cutter requirements are excluded from
these regulations. However, certain of these requirements have been retained in order to
secure a reasonable assurance that the Department funds projects that are
environmentally sound, that the loan recipient can construct, operate, and maintain the
project and repay the loan, that these public funds are adequately protected and expended
only for their intended purpose, and as otherwise required by EPA.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-17-81 through 49-17-89, 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.
Rule 6.2 Program Requirements.

320

