Wetlands, Section 10, and floodplain impact review)
(iv)

Mississippi Department of Marine Resources (Jackson, Harrison,
and Hancock County Projects only; for Mississippi Coastal
Program and applicable Mississippi law review)

(v)

U.S. Forest Service (projects located in a federally designated Wild
and Scenic River Basin only, for federal Wild and Scenic Rivers
Act compliance)

(g)

For projects defined under Section 212 of the Act, a comparative
evaluation of the no-action alternative and the proposed alternative, which
accounts for beneficial and adverse consequences that each alternative
would have on existing and future environmental resources, as required by
Appendix B.

(h)

A financial capability summary using planning level cost estimates.

(i)

For projects defined under Section 212 of the Act, (1) a copy of the notice
to the public of the proposed project and for the opportunity to comment
on alternatives and to examine environmental review documents,
including the facilities plan and any comments, permits, or clearances
from the intergovernmental review agencies, (2) a copy of any comments
received from the public, and (3) a description of how all comments were
addressed.

(j)

For projects defined under Section 212 of the Act and determined by the
Department to be controversial, (1) a copy of the public hearing notice
published in a local newspaper of general circulation providing at least a
30 day advance notice of a public hearing to be held by the loan applicant,
(2) a copy of the transcript of the public hearing and (3) a description of
how all comments were addressed.

(k)

Calculations showing the necessary user charges for the project using
planning level cost estimates.

(3)

State Environmental Review Process. For projects defined under Section 212 of
the Act, prior to approval of the facilities plan, the Department will complete the
appropriate portions of the state environmental review process described in
Appendix B of these regulations, based upon information provided in the facilities
plan.

(4)

Approval of Facilities Plan. The Department will approve the facilities plan after
completing any applicable state environmental review process and after
determining that all facilities planning requirements appear to be met.

325

