draft permit and shall be mailed to any person or group upon request.
Notice shall be mailed to all persons and governmental agencies which
received a copy of the notice or the fact sheet for the draft permit
(c)

(2)

The Permit Board may hold a single public hearing on related groups of
draft permits.

Public Hearing Notice Contents
A notice by the Permit Board of a public hearing on a draft permit shall contain in
addition to the time and place of the hearing:

H.

(a)

The address and telephone number of the Department office in Jackson,
MS, and the name of a contact person.

(b)

The name and address of the applicant whose draft permit will be
considered at the public hearing

(c)

The name of the waters of the State to which a discharge, as identified on
the draft permit, is or will be made and a concise description of the
location of the discharge point. In the case of general permits, a
description of geographical area and/or allowable receiving waters shall be
provided.

(d)

Reference to the public notice posted and published for the draft permit,
including the identification numbers and dates of issuance thereof, if
applicable.

(e)

A brief statement of the purpose of the public hearing.

(f)

The address or addresses of Department offices where interested persons
may inspect or obtain copies of a draft permit, fact sheet or other
applicable forms or other reports, files or information relating to a draft
permit subject to public hearing, which has not been declared confidential
by the Commission.

(g)

A concise description of the nature of the public hearing and the issues to
be heard, with reference to Permit Board rules and procedures to be
followed.

Permit Board Determinations, Issuance or Denial of Permits.
(1)

In considering an application for a permit issuance or transfer, the Permit Board
may consider the applicant's compliance history, financial capability, financial
responsibility, or any other aspect of the applicant's history it deems necessary or
appropriate.
33

