If any change order is submitted to the Department that is not complete
and executed by the loan recipient, the contracting party, and the engineer
if appropriate, the Department may return such change order without
review. However, unilateral change orders executed by the loan recipient,
and the engineer if appropriate, and identified as such, that are issued in
accordance with the contract documents may be submitted to the
Department for review and approval, in order to obtain a WPCRLF loan
eligibility/allowability determination.
The loan recipient may submit a complete change order which has been
executed conditional upon a WPCRLF loan eligibility/allowability
determination by the Department.
If possible, approval of a change order should be secured from the
Department before the work is started. Approval may also be secured
after the work is started; however, the loan recipient must bear the cost if
the work is later determined to be ineligible or unallowable.
When the eligible cost of a project will be significantly reduced by a
change order(s), the Department may issue an amendment to the loan
agreement decreasing the loan amount, and the loan recipient must
execute the amendment within the time frame established by the
Department.

(5)

(c)

Department Review. In order to allow the Department to perform a
technical and loan allowability review, requests for change order
approvals must conform to Department guidance, requirements and
regulations.

(d)

Time Extensions. Change orders which include time extensions exceeding
30 days beyond the original contract completion date, and/or
documentation that the loan recipient is implementing all legal remedies
provided in the contract documents for failure to complete construction
when required, must be submitted to the Department as specified in Rule
6.3.F(6)(i) of these regulations. Justification for contract time extensions
included in a change order must be prepared, but need not be submitted to
the Department unless the total time extensions for the contract exceed 30
days after the original contract completion date, in which case justification
for all time extensions must be submitted to the Department for an
allowability determination.

Contractor Bankruptcy or Default. In the event of a contractor bankruptcy or
default, any proposed agreements with the bonding company (other than the
bonding company serving as general contractor or hiring another contractor acting

333

