ordinance to the Department.
(h)

Within 10 days after construction completion of each construction
contract, the loan recipient must notify the Department of construction
completion.
The Department will perform a final construction observation within 30
days after the current construction contract completion date, unless further
delayed by the Department pursuant to review of the loan recipient’s
request and justification for such delay. Should the Department decide
that the construction completion is being unreasonably delayed, a final
construction observation may be immediately performed by the
Department. The final construction observation by the Department is only
for the purpose of determining final loan allowable costs.

G.

(i)

Within 30 days after the current construction contract completion date, all
change orders which include time extensions exceeding 30 days beyond
the original contract completion date, and/or documentation showing the
loan recipient is implementing all legal remedies provided in the contract
documents for failure to complete construction when required, must be
submitted to the Department for an allowability determination.

(j)

Within 30 days after the Department’s final construction observation, the
loan recipient must submit: final loan payment requests, approvable
summary change orders for all construction contracts; record drawings for
the entire project funded in whole or in part with WPCRLF funds; the
engineer’s certification of compliance with plans, specifications, and
contract documents; final professional services contract amendments, if
any; and all other administrative forms and documents required by the
loan agreement. Loan payment requests submitted after this date are
not allowable, regardless of when the costs were incurred.

(k)

Any other submittals or actions required by the loan agreement must be
performed when required and are subject to review and approval by the
Department.

Post Construction Phase.
(1)

Following final payment of WPCRLF loan funds to the loan recipient, or upon
expiration of any deadlines established by the loan agreement or the Department,
the Department or other designated parties may perform an audit of the WPCRLF
loan project for the purpose of determining compliance with the WPCRLF loan
agreement and to determine final allowable costs, payments made to date, and any
additional payments due the loan recipient or repayment due the Department.

335

