(1)

Payments may only be requested by and made to loan recipients, in accordance
with the WPCRLF loan agreement and the loan recipient’s executed and approved
contracts for eligible and allowable services and construction, for work performed
within the project scope and budget period.

(2)

Payments may be requested no more often than on a monthly basis, except as
allowed by the Department.

(3)

The loan recipient must deduct from all WPCRLF payment requests the amount
of funds provided or to be provided from all other state and federal agency
funding sources for allowable WPCRLF project costs.

(4)

Payment requests must be submitted by the loan recipient to the Department and
must include the following:

(5)

(a)

WPCRLF payment request form.

(b)

Cumulative invoices, in accordance with the contracts for such work, for
all costs for which payment is requested.

(c)

Any other documents required by the loan agreement.

The timing of WPCRLF payments to the loan recipient will be as follows,
provided the loan recipient is in compliance with the requirements of these
regulations and provisions of the WPCRLF loan agreement:
(a)

Upon execution of the loan agreement all incurred facilities planning and
application costs may be requested and paid. No further payments may be
requested and paid except as allowed below.

(b)

Payments for eligible land may be requested and paid immediately after
loan agreement execution, if the Department has approved the purchase
price and the loan recipient has submitted a bonafide option to purchase.

(c)

Upon (1) approval of all plans, specifications, and contract documents,
and (2) submittal of clear site certificates from the loan recipient and title
counsel for all loan eligible and ineligible real property, costs incurred to
date in accordance with the contracts for administration, engineering,
legal, and any other professional services may be requested and paid. No
further payments may be requested and paid except as allowed below.

(d)

Upon receipt by the Department of all executed construction contract
documents and notices(s) to proceed, costs incurred in accordance with the
contracts for administration, engineering, legal, and any other professional
services may be requested and paid.

337

