A

General
Eligible costs are those costs in which WPCRLF loan participation is authorized pursuant
to applicable statute. Allowable costs are eligible costs that meet the following general
criteria in addition to any specific identification as an allowable cost within Appendix A:

B.

(1)

Are necessary and reasonable for the proper and efficient administration and
construction of the project, be allocable to the project, and not be a general
expense required to carry out the overall responsibilities of the loan recipient.

(2)

Are authorized or not prohibited under state or local laws or regulations.

(3)

Conform to any limitations or exclusions set forth in state laws or other governing
limitations as to types or amounts of cost items.

(4)

Are consistent with policies, regulations, and procedures that apply uniformly to
both state assisted and other activities of the loan recipient.

(5)

Are accorded consistent treatment through the application of generally accepted
accounting principles appropriate to the circumstances.

(6)

Are not allocable to, or included as, a cost of any other federally or state financed
program in either the current, prior, or future period.

(7)

Are determined allowable by the Department after review of necessary books,
records and other documents related to the costs. Failure to cooperate with the
Department regarding access to project records or refusal to provide such records
when requested by the Department may result in costs being determined
unallowable for WPCRLF participation.

(8)

Are within the scope and budget period of the project as described in the loan
agreement.

(9)

Are determined without regard to any previous federal grant, WPALP, WPCELF
or WPCRLF loan funding provided for facilities to be replaced, upgraded, or
rehabilitated, except as described in Rule 6.2.F.(2)(d) and (e) of these
regulations.

(10)

Not withstanding this appendix, are eligible and allowable under the federal Clean
Water Act and any implementing federal regulations.

(11)

Are procured in accordance with Appendix C.

Professional Services
The term professional services refers to engineering, legal, administrative, and similar
341

