wastewater treatment facility, transmission of wastewater or sludge, or for
the maintenance of equipment. These items include:

(g)

(i)

Portable stand-by generators.

(ii)

Large portable emergency pumps to provide “pump-around”
capability in the event of pump station failure or pipeline breaks.

(iii)

Sludge or septage tankers, trailers, and other vehicles having as
their sole purpose the transportation of liquid or dewatered wastes
from the collector point (including individual or onsite systems) to
the treatment facility or disposal site.

(iv)

Tillage, planting, landspreading and harvesting equipment that is
documented as necessary and reasonable for land treatment process
and other vehicles demonstrated necessary to the facility and
approved in advance by the Department.

Replacement parts identified and approved in advance by the Department
as necessary to assure uninterrupted operation of the facility, provided
they are critical parts or major systems components which are:
(i)

not immediately available and/or whose procurement involves an
extended “lead-time,” or

(ii)

identified as critical by the equipment supplier(s), or

(iii)

critical but not included in the inventory provided by the
equipment supplier(s).

(h)

Wastewater and drinking water flow metering devices used for wastewater
billing purposes.

(i)

The cost of furnishings, office equipment, and maintenance equipment
dedicated solely to the pollution control project. Necessary and
reasonable office furnishings and equipment include chairs, desks, file
cabinets, typewriters, coffee tables, telephones, office supplies,
calculators, copiers, book cases, shelves and lamps. Ordinary site and
building maintenance equipment such as lawnmowers, rakes, shovels,
brooms, picks, hedge trimmers, and other such equipment. Hand tools
such as screw drivers, pliers, socket wrenches, electric drills or saws, etc.

(j)

Computers. Computers, display monitors, and computer software which
are designed into the control system for the daily operations of the
treatment works.

346

