processed sludges which are to be managed for income generation or
crops which are grown for sale as an integral part of the wastewater land
treatment or sludge utilization process.
Facilities and equipment built for processing crops grown on land to
which sludge or wastewater has been applied may be an allowable cost if
the recipient has all financial interest in the crop and if those facilities are
necessary and reasonable to prepare the crop for prompt delivery to its
market.
Facilities built for processing crops or sludge into marketable products
such as compost or heat-dried pellets may be allowable if those facilities
are necessary and reasonable to cost-effectively prepare the product for
prompt delivery to its market. Facilities to store the marketable products
to get more favorable prices, to transport the product for sale to a market,
or to optimize marketing of the product, such as bagging operations, are
also allowable.
(2)

Unallowable costs include:
(a)

Ordinary operation expenses of the loan recipient including salaries and
expenses of the loan recipient’s employees and elected and appointed
officials and preparation of routine financial reports and studies.

(b)

Administrative, engineering and legal activities associated with the
establishment of departments, agencies, commissions, regions, districts or
other units of government.

(c)

Approval, preparation, issuance and sale of bonds or other forms of
indebtedness required to finance the project and the interest on them.

(d)

Personal injury compensation or damages arising out of the project.

(e)

Fines and penalties due to violations of, or failure to comply with, federal,
state or local laws, regulations or procedures, and related legal expenses.

(f)

Costs outside the scope or budget period of the approved project.

(g)

Costs for which payment has been or will be received from another state
or federal source.

(h)

If a treatment works includes any reserve capacity which induces
development on environmentally sensitive lands such as wetland, flood
plains, etc, the cost of the entire treatment works will be unallowable.

(i)

Operation and maintenance costs of the treatment works.
353

