(3)

By action or suit in equity, enjoin any acts or things which may be unlawful or in
violation of the rights of the Department.

(4)

By applying to a court of competent jurisdiction, cause to appoint a receiver to manage
the Project, establish and collect fees and charges, and apply the Revenues to the
reduction of the obligations under this Agreement.

(5)

By certifying to the Tax Commissioner delinquency on loan repayments, the Department
may intercept the delinquent amount, plus ten (10) percent annual penalty interest on the
amount due to the Department, from any unobligated funds due to the Loan Recipient
under any revenue or tax sharing fund established by the State. Penalty interest shall
accrue on any amount due and payable beginning on the thirtieth (30th) day following the
date upon which payment is due. The penalty interest shall be compounded monthly.

(6)

By notifying financial market credit rating agencies.

(7)

By administratively charging or suing for payment of amounts due, or becoming due,
plus ten (10) percent annual penalty interest which shall accrue on any amount due and
payable beginning on the thirtieth (30th) day after such notification by the Department,
together with all costs of collection, including attorneys’ fees. The penalty interest shall
be compounded monthly.

(8)

By accelerating the repayment schedule or increasing the interest rate.

(9)

By withholding payments to the Loan Recipient.

(10)

By terminating the Agreement, after providing thirty (30) days written notice of such
intent to terminate the Agreement. Such termination will not affect the duty of the Loan
Recipient to repay loan funds paid thus far.

No delay or omission to exercise any right or power accruing upon event of default shall impair
any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such default or acquiescence
therein, and every such right and power may be exercised as often as may be deemed expedient.
No waiver of any default under this Agreement shall extend to or affect any subsequent event of
default, whether of the same or different provision of this Agreement, or shall impair consequent
rights or remedies.

369

