(21)

Interceptor Sewer – A sewer which is designed for one or more of the following
purposes:
(a)

To intercept wastewater from a final point in an existing or proposed collector
sewer and convey such wastes directly to a treatment facility or another
interceptor or pump station.

(b)

To replace an existing wastewater treatment facility and transport the wastes to an
adjoining collector sewer or interceptor sewer for conveyance to a treatment plant.

(c)

To transport wastewater, together with quantities of infiltration and inflow that are
not admitted intentionally, from one or more municipal collector sewers to
another municipality or to a regional facility for treatment.

(d)

To intercept an existing discharge of raw or inadequately treated wastewater for
transport directly to another interceptor, pump station or to a treatment plant.

(22)

Interlocal Agreement – An agreement or contract between the loan applicant/recipient
and other entities relating to use, enforcement or finances of the project or treatment
works, which may be necessary to ensure completion and operation, and maintenance of
a useful project.

(23)

Loan Agreement – A legal and binding agreement between the Department and the loan
recipient through which the Department provides WPCRLF assistance for eligible and
allowable costs and the recipient agrees to repay any administrative fees to the
Department and the principal sum and interest to the WPCRLF over a period and at an
interest rate established in the loan agreement.

(24)

Loan Applicant – An eligible applicant that applies or intends to apply for financial
assistance from the WPCRLF program

(25)

Loan Recipient – An eligible applicant that executes a WPCRLF loan agreement.

(26)

Overflows and Bypasses – Polluted water, such as sewage, which overflows or bypasses
any portion of the treatment works prior to complete and final treatment and discharge in
accordance with the permit.

(27)

Project – The scope of work for which financial assistance is provided under the
WPCRLF loan agreement.

(28)

Project Completion – The date of the final construction observation as performed by the
Department for the purpose of a loan allowability determination.

(29)

Repayment – Administrative fees, principal and interest repayments on WPCRLF loans
as established in the loan agreement.

373

