Similarly, 40 CFR 35.3145 requires that the State must also require all recipients of funds
which equal the amount of the federal grants to the State to comply with certain other
“cross-cutting” federal authorities. Cross-cutting authorities are federal laws and
authorities that apply to these projects independent of the federal Water Pollution Act and
subsequent amendments.
Since the beginning of this program in FY-89 and continuing through FY-00, the
Department required that all projects receiving loan funding meet federal equivalency
and cross-cutter requirements and has banked the amount of these loan awards in excess
of the federal capitalization grants toward meeting equivalency and cross-cutter
requirements of future federal capitalization grants. Accordingly, the Department has
determined that beginning in FY-01, projects funded in this program will not be required
to meet all federal equivalency and cross-cutter requirements, and this practice will
continue until the banked equivalency requirements are exhausted.
Thus, almost all of these federal equivalency and cross-cutter requirements are excluded
from these regulations. However, certain of these requirements have been retained in
order to secure a reasonable assurance that the Department funds projects that are
environmentally sound, that the loan recipient can construct, operate, and maintain the
project and repay the loan, that these public funds are adequately protected and expended
only for their intended purpose, and as otherwise required by federal law and regulations.
Also, certain federal requirements are mandatory for all projects and are listed in
Appendix J.
Source: Miss. Code §§ 49-17-81 through 49-17-89, 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.
Rule 7.2 Program Requirements.
A.

Eligible Applicant Determination. To be eligible for financial assistance, an applicant
must meet the definition of an eligible applicant as described in Appendix M of these
regulations, as determined by the Department.

B.

Intended Use Plan (IUP). In each fiscal year for which funds are available in the
WPCRLF, the Commission will establish and publish an IUP in conformance with
federal requirements. The IUP includes a mechanism developed by the Department to
prioritize potential projects for uses of the available funds. The IUP describes the
intended use of the funds in the WPCRLF and how the uses support the goals of the
program.

C.

Reserves. The Commission may reserve certain percentages of the State’s federal Title
VI allotment from each fiscal year for administration of the WPCRLF program and for
planning under Sections 205(j) and 303(e) of the Act, consistent with the Act and state
law. The Commission may also charge administrative fees to loan recipients for
administration of the WPCRLF program, as established in each year’s IUP.

376

