(2)

(a)

Construction of publicly owned treatment works as defined in Section 212
of the Act.

(b)

Implementation of nonpoint source pollution management programs
established under Section 319 of the Act.

(c)

Development and implementation of estuary
management plans under Section 320 of the Act.

conservation

and

Basic financial assistance requirements are as follows:
(a)

Section 212 projects shall be included on the fundable or planning portion
of the Priority List in the current year’s IUP.

(b)

Terms of any financial assistance shall be as established in the IUP for the
projects to be funded in each fiscal year and shall be further established in
the loan agreement.

(c)

The loan applicant or recipient shall comply with the requirements of the
Act, as amended, all applicable state laws, requirements, regulations, and
the annual IUP.

(d)

The applicant must not be in violation of any provisions of a previously
awarded WPCRLF, WPCELF or WPALP loan agreement.

(e)

The applicant must not be in arrears in repayments to the WPCRLF, the
WPCELF, the WPALP or on any other loan.

(f)

Funds will not be disbursed to loan recipients until the loan recipient has
entered into a WPCRLF loan agreement with the Department.

(g)

The WPCRLF program will provide assistance only to projects that are
consistent with any water quality management plans developed under
sections 205(j), 208, 303(e), 319 and 320 of the Act as applicable.

G.

State Capitalization Grant Application. After the Commission adopts each annual IUP,
the Executive Director may submit the IUP with an application to the appropriate federal
agency for any available federal funds.

H.

WPCRLF Program Administration. The WPCRLF Program will be administered by the
Commission acting through the Department, in accordance with the Act, applicable
federal regulations, state law and these regulations.

I

Responsibility. The applicant/loan recipient is responsible for compliance with all
applicable state and federal laws and regulations, and for the proper planning, design,
construction, operation, maintenance, replacement, performance, and fiscal integrity of
378

