the project. The Department’s approval of any document does not relieve the
applicant/loan recipient or any others of any liabilities or responsibilities. Department
review and/or approval of any document is for loan eligibility/allowability purposes and
does not establish or convey any such liability or responsibility.
J.

Other Approvals. The applicant/loan recipient must obtain approval of all necessary
documents from each state, local, and federal agency having jurisdiction over or funding
in the project, if so required by that agency.

Source: Miss. Code §§ 49-17-81 through 49-17-89, 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.
Rule 7.3 Project Requirements. All water pollution control projects funded by the WPCRLF
must comply with the following requirements. Non-point source pollution control projects and
estuary management projects must comply with these requirements to the extent described in
the loan application and loan agreement, as established by the Department.
A.

Facilities Planning.
(1)

Preplanning Guidance and Conference. The Department will provide facilities
planning guidance to the potential applicant and/or its engineer. The potential loan
applicant and/or its engineer should attend a preplanning conference with the
Department as early in the planning process as practical. During the conference
the staff will provide information on the required facilities planning documents
necessary to comply with these regulations. All facilities plans must be prepared
by or under the responsible supervision of a professional engineer registered
under Mississippi law.

(2)

Contents of the Facilities Plan. The facilities plan must comply with the
Department’s guidance, including updates, Appendices A, B and J of these
regulations and any other requirements of the Department pursuant to review of
the facilities plan. The facilities plan must generally contain the following, as
determined appropriate by the Department:
(a)

A description of the existing water pollution control facilities, if any,
owned by the applicant.

(b)

A description of the existing and/or future water pollution problem or
threat to be addressed by the proposed project.

(c)

Documentation of sufficient flow monitoring and/or estimation to quantify
wastewater, infiltration and inflow, applicable effluent limitations, and any
other technical data necessary to provide the basis for preliminary
engineering design of the project.

379

