to comment on alternatives and to examine environmental review
documents, including the facilities plan and any comments, permits, or
clearances from the intergovernmental review agencies, (2) a copy of any
comments received from the public, and (3) a description of how all
comments were addressed.

B.

(j)

For projects defined under Section 212 of the Act and determined by the
Department to be controversial, (1) proof of publication of the public
hearing notice published in a local newspaper of general circulation
providing at least a 30 day advance notice of a public hearing to be held
by the loan applicant, (2) a copy of the transcript of the public hearing and
(3) a description of how all comments were addressed.

(k)

Calculations showing the necessary user charges for the project using
planning level cost estimates.

(3)

State Environmental Review Process. For projects defined under Section 212 of
the Act, prior to approval of the facilities plan, the Department will complete the
appropriate portions of the state environmental review process described in
Appendix B of these regulations, based upon information provided in the facilities
plan.

(4)

Approval of Facilities Plan. The Department will approve the facilities plan after
completing any applicable state environmental review process and after
determining that all facilities planning requirements appear to be met.

Application for WPCRLF Loan.
(1)

Preapplication Guidance and Conference. The Department will provide a loan
application package to the potential loan applicant and/or its engineer. The
potential loan applicant and/or its engineer may request a pre-application
conference with the Department as early in the application process as practical.

(2)

Contents of an Application Package. Forms provided by the Department must be
used and may not be altered. The WPCRLF loan application may include
assistance only for costs that are allowable in accordance with Appendix A of
these regulations and may include a contingency, as determined by the
Department, in the project budget. The application package must conform to these
regulations, and must include the following:
(a)

A WPCRLF loan application form with original signature. Sources of all
funds other than WPCRLF must be identified. Prior to loan award, the
Department must receive an assurance from all other funding sources that
other funds necessary to construct an operable project are or will be
available on a schedule compatible with that required in the loan
agreement.
381

