which indicate that all such real property has been secured by at
least one of the following actions:
(i)

Execution by both parties of a bona fide option to purchase
the property or an easement

(ii)

Initiation of condemnation by filing such action in court

Prior to execution of the option to purchase and/or filing
condemnation, the loan recipient must submit an appraisal and
secure Department approval of the purchase price.
(3)

E.

Approval of Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents.
By the dates established in the loan agreement, the loan recipient must secure
approval of the plans, specifications and contract documents for each contract by
the Department. The Department will approve the plans, specifications, and
contract documents upon determining that these documents appear to:
(a)

Conform to the requirements of these regulations,

(b)

Be approvable pursuant to a technical review, and

(c)

Be consistent with the approved facilities planning documents and
environmental determinations required by these regulations.

Construction Contracting and Loan Amendment.
(1)

For each construction contract, within the time frame established in the loan
agreement and prior to advertisement for construction bids, the loan recipient
must a) secure necessary local funds and submit proof of such funds, b) submit
any other required permits or clearances, and c) submit clear site certificates from
both the loan recipient and the title counsel which indicate that all required real
property has been secured.

(2)

Within the time frames established in the loan agreement, the loan recipient must
advertise each construction contract for bids.

(3)

Within 45 days after advertisement for construction bids on each contract, the
loan recipient must receive bids on that construction contract.

(4)

Within 14 days after receipt of construction bids on each contract, the loan
recipient must submit the MBE/WBE and related documentation for that contract
as required by Appendix D of these regulations.

(5)

Within 21 days after receipt of construction bids on each contract, the loan
recipient must submit the bid package for that contract.
385

