The loan recipient must provide for adequate observation of all parts of the
project by the engineer or his staff and must require the engineer’s assurance that
the work is being performed in a satisfactory manner in accordance with the
WPCRLF loan agreement and the approved plans, specifications, contract
documents and approved change orders.
The Department is authorized to observe the construction of any project at any
time for compliance with the terms of the loan agreement and to determine if the
loan recipient and engineer appear to be assuring that plans, specifications and
contract documents are being followed. Such observation will not subject the
Department to any legal action for claims, damages or any other liability. Such
observation will not release the contractor from any obligation to perform the
work in accordance with the requirements of the contract documents, or the
engineer from determining compliance with the requirements of the contract
documents, or the loan recipient from insuring compliance with the contract and
the terms of the loan agreement.
The contractor, engineer, and the loan recipient must furnish the Department with
every reasonable opportunity and means for determining whether the loan
recipient and engineer are assuring that the work is in accordance with the
requirements of the approved plans, specifications and contract documents. The
Department is authorized to observe and require submission by the loan recipient
of daily logs, record drawings, file notes, and any other documents prepared in
relation to the WPCRLF funded project.
(3)

(4)

Construction Deficiencies.
(a)

In the event that it appears to the Department that the loan recipient and
engineer are not assuring that the construction work, materials, equipment
or supplies are in conformity with approved plans and specifications, and
contract documents, the Department may determine these items are
unallowable for WPCRLF loan participation, unless the loan recipient
takes action, through the engineer if applicable, in the manner provided for
in the construction contract to correct any such deficiencies.

(b)

The Department may withhold WPCRLF loan payments for such time that
it appears that the loan recipient and engineer are not assuring that
construction work, materials, equipment or supplies are in accordance
with the approved plans, specifications and contract documents, and may
require the loan recipient to repay any previously paid amounts related to
such items within 30 days of such notification.

Change Orders.
(a)

General

387

