The loan recipient may, at its discretion, execute change orders pertaining
to the construction that are necessary under the circumstances, as provided
in the contract documents and when in accordance with state law. Contract
price, time, quantity, and specifications may only be changed by change
order. Change orders must not change, vary, or alter the basic purpose or
effect of the project. Change orders must be technically adequate and
conform to Department design guidance and regulations.
Eligible/ineligible costs must be appropriately separated.
(b)

Change Order Submittals
After completion of the change order negotiation process and/or claims
resolution between the loan recipient and the contracting party, an
executed change order must be submitted to the Department for review
and approval, in order to obtain a WPCRLF loan eligibility/allowability
determination.
If any change order is submitted to the Department that is not complete
and executed by the loan recipient, the contracting party, and the engineer
if appropriate, the Department may return such change order without
review. However, unilateral change orders executed by the loan recipient,
and the engineer if appropriate, and identified as such, that are issued in
accordance with the contract documents may be submitted to the
Department for review and approval, in order to obtain a WPCRLF loan
eligibility/allowability determination.
The loan recipient may submit a complete change order which has been
executed conditional upon a WPCRLF loan eligibility/allowability
determination by the Department.
If possible, approval of a change order should be secured from the
Department before the work is started, particularly for change orders
including time extensions. Approval may also be secured after the work is
started; however, the loan recipient must bear the cost if the work is later
determined to be ineligible or unallowable.
When the eligible cost of a project will be significantly reduced by a
change order(s), the Department may issue an amendment to the loan
agreement decreasing the loan amount, and the loan recipient must
execute the amendment within the time frame established by the
Department.

(c)

Time Extensions

388

