Justification for all contract time extensions need not be submitted to the
Department unless the total time extensions for the contract exceed 25%
of the original contract time.
(5)

Contractor Bankruptcy or Default.
In the event of a contractor bankruptcy or default, any proposed agreements with
the bonding company (other than the bonding company serving as general
contractor or hiring another contractor acting as their agent) must be submitted for
a WPCRLF loan allowability determination by the Department prior to execution.
If the loan recipient determines that re-award of the construction contract or a
portion thereof is necessary due to contractor bankruptcy or default, such
proposed re-award contracts must be submitted for a WPCRLF loan allowability
determination by the Department prior to execution. The loan recipient will be
responsible for assuring that every appropriate procedure and incidental legal
requirement are observed in advertising for bids or otherwise re-awarding a
construction contract, if this course of action is taken.

(6)

Project Completion.
(a)

Within 10 days after construction completion of each construction
contract, the loan recipient must notify the Department of construction
completion.

(b)

Within 30 days after the current construction contract completion date for
each contract, all change orders which include time extensions and/or the
request and justification for delay required in (c) below must be submitted
to the Department for an allowability determination.

(c)

The Department will perform a final construction observation within 30
days after the current construction contract completion date of the last
contract, unless further delayed by the Department pursuant to review of
the loan recipient’s request and justification for such delay. If, for any
reason, the construction completion is being unreasonably delayed, as
determined by the Department, a final construction observation may be
immediately performed. The final construction observation by the
Department is only for the purpose of determining loan allowable costs.

(d)

Within 30 days after the Department’s final construction observation, the
loan recipient must submit: final loan payment requests, approvable
summary change orders for all construction contracts; record drawings for
the entire project funded in whole or in part with WPCRLF funds; the
engineer’s certification of compliance with plans, specifications, and
contract documents; final professional services contract amendments, if
any; and all other administrative forms and documents required by the

389

