(5)

(a)

Effluent limitations for publicly owned treatment works and other
discharges, including indirect discharges, when promulgated by the
Administrator of EPA pursuant to Sections 204(b), 301, 302, 303, and 307
of the Federal Act, in accordance with and subject to the date of
compliance prescribed therein, if the limitations are not in conflict with the
State law or the Federal Act.

(b)

Standards of performance when promulgated by the Administrator of
EPA, for new sources within the categories defined in Section 306 of the
Federal Act.

(c)

If the permit is for a discharge from a publicly owned treatment works,
standards of performance, pretreatment standards or effluent limitations or
prohibitions when promulgated by the Administrator of EPA for toxic
substances, monitoring and charges pursuant to Sections 204(b), 307, and
308 of the Federal Act. Toxicity screening and limitations shall be
established in accordance with Rule 1.1.2 of these regulations.

(d)

Any other more stringent limitation deemed necessary by the Permit
Board to meet applicable water quality standards, treatment standards or
schedules of compliance established pursuant to the State law or
regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, or necessary to meet other
Federal law or regulations enacted or promulgated subsequent to this
regulation, or required to meet any applicable water quality standards
including applicable requirements necessary to meet Total Maximum
Daily Loads established by and incorporated into the State's continuing
planning process required pursuant to Section 303 of the Federal Act.

(e)

The conditions regarding reissued permits contained in 40 CFR 122.44(l)
are incorporated herein and adopted by reference.

(f)

The effluent limitations promulgated by EPA pursuant to Sections 301,
302, 303, 306, and 307 of the Federal Act shall become immediately
enforceable as if a duly promulgated regulation of the Commission.

Consistency with Water Quality Standards
When a State or an NPDES permit issued by the Permit Board contains any
effluent standards or limitations set forth in 1.1.4.A.3. and 4. of this Rule, the
Permit Board shall verify that the discharge authorized by the issued permit will
not violate applicable water quality standards. When a permit contains additional
effluent limitations based upon applicable water quality standards, the Permit
Board staff shall prepare a wasteload allocation ensuring that the discharge
authorized by the issued permit is consistent with applicable water quality
standards, 40 CFR 122.44(a)-(d) (which are incorporated herein and adopted by
reference) and Rule 1.1.2 of these regulations.
39

