loan agreement. Loan payment requests submitted after this date are
not allowable, regardless of when the costs were incurred.
(e)

Any other submittals or actions required by the loan agreement must be
performed when required and are subject to review and approval by the
Department.

G. Loan Closeout Phase.
(1)

The Department or other designated parties may perform an audit of the
WPCRLF loan project for the purpose of determining compliance with the
WPCRLF loan agreement and to determine allowable costs, payments made to
date, and any additional payments due the loan recipient or repayment due the
Department. The Department will transmit to the loan recipient a copy of the audit
report, if performed.

(2)

Upon submittal of the items required or upon expiration of the deadline in Rule
7.3.F.(6)(d) of these regulations, the Department will determine the final
allowable costs. However, if at any time the loan recipient fails to comply with
any deadline or requirement of these regulations or the loan agreement, the
Department may immediately issue a final determination of allowable costs.

(3)

Upon determination of final allowable costs by the Department, the Department
will transmit to the loan recipient the final determination of allowable costs and
payments due the loan recipient or repayments due the State, and a final loan
agreement between the loan recipient, the Department, and the State Tax
Commission. The final determination letter will establish a 30-day appeal
deadline and will require repayment of any overpayments with an interest penalty
to begin accruing on the appeal deadline. The interest penalty will be as
established in Rule 7.3.H.(6) of these regulations.

(4)

Unless, within 30 days after the date of the above final determination, the loan
recipient submits a written appeal of the final determination, including a written
justification of the reason for the appeal, and supporting documentation for any
disputed costs of the final determination, the final determination of allowable
costs will become the final allowable costs for purposes of WPCRLF loan
payments and the loan agreement, and the loan recipient must execute and submit
the final loan agreement within the timeframe established by the Department.

(5)

Should an appeal be submitted in accordance with (4) above, the disputes
procedures established in Appendix F of these regulations will be followed in
order to resolve the dispute and establish the final allowable costs. Upon
resolution of a dispute of the final determination, the Department will transmit to
the loan recipient a revised final loan agreement. The loan recipient must execute
and submit to the Department the final loan agreement within the deadline
established by the Department.
390

