H.

(6)

Upon receipt of an executed final loan agreement from the loan recipient, the
Department will transmit the final loan agreement to the State Tax Commission
for execution and return to the Department.

(7)

Upon receipt of the executed final loan agreement from the State Tax
Commission, the Department will transmit a copy to the loan recipient, and
repayment of the WPCRLF loan will commence under the terms of the executed
final loan agreement.

(8)

If the project fails to perform properly at any time within the first year after the
final construction observation performed by the Department, the loan recipient
must immediately notify the Department of the reasons for lack of performance,
submit an approvable schedule of corrective actions, and implement the corrective
actions in accordance with the approved schedule.

Payments to WPCRLF Loan Recipients. Payments from the WPCRLF may be made
under the following conditions:
(1)

Payments may only be requested by and made to loan recipients, in accordance
with the WPCRLF loan agreement and the loan recipient’s executed and approved
contracts for eligible and allowable services and construction, for work performed
within the project scope and budget period.

(2)

Payments may be requested no more often than on a monthly basis, except as
allowed by the Department.

(3)

The loan recipient must deduct from all WPCRLF payment requests the amount
of funds provided or to be provided from all other state and federal agency
funding sources for allowable WPCRLF project costs.

(4)

Payment requests must be submitted by the loan recipient to the Department and
must include the following:

(5)

(a)

WPCRLF payment request form.

(b)

Cumulative invoices, in accordance with the contracts for such work, for
all costs for which payment is requested.

(c)

Any other documents required by the loan agreement.

The timing of WPCRLF payments to the loan recipient will be as follows,
provided the loan recipient is in compliance with the requirements of these
regulations and provisions of the WPCRLF loan agreement:

391

