I.

(a)

Those portions of treatment works which have surface discharges from
individual residences or clusters, unless each discharge has a valid NPDES
permit.

(b)

Modification to physical structure of homes, commercial buildings, or any
other structures which are not a part of the public treatment works project.

(c)

Wastewater generating fixtures such as commodes, sinks, tubs, and drains.

Real Property and Existing Improvements
(1)

Allowable costs include:
(a)

The cost of land that will be an integral part of the treatment process, such
as for land treatment facilities, acquired in accordance with the Mississippi
Real Property Acquisition Policies Law in fee simple title or by easement.
Except as allowed under Section I.(2) below, such land must be acquired
at fair market value based on an appraisal or a condemnation proceeding,
unless the purchase price of a parcel is $10,000 or less. These costs
include:

(b)

(i)

The cost of a reasonable amount of land acquired for the
construction of land treatment works, considering the need for
buffer areas, berms, and dikes. Buffer areas may be designed as
part of the project to conform with Mississippi Environmental
Quality Permit Board regulations, to screen sites from public view,
to control public access, and to improve aesthetics.

(ii)

The cost of land acquired for land application of sludge,
composting or temporary storage of compost residues which result
from wastewater treatment.

(iii)

Where properties are only partially acquired for project purposes,
necessary compensation of property owners for the reduced value
of their remaining land.

The cost of acquiring all or part of an existing publicly or privately owned
wastewater treatment works and necessary land for a consolidation
project, provided all of the following criteria are met:
(i)

The acquisition is for the purpose of providing new pollution
control benefits from the acquisition itself or through the
subsequent action committed to by the loan recipient, including but
not limited to upgrade, expansion, rehabilitation or removal from
service of the treatment works. The costs associated with these
405

