describe the changes and any expected new impacts on the environment due to the
changes.
(4)

Reaffirmation of an Environmental Action
If five years will pass between the issuance of a FONSI, EIS or Amendment and
the offer of WPCRLF funding, the environmental impact of the project will be
reevaluated. If there have been no significant changes, the Department will issue a
reaffirmation of the environmental action. If the original environmental action
cannot be reaffirmed, the Department will issue a new environmental action, as
appropriate.

(5)

No Further Action
The Department will issue a FONSI or EIS for all WPCRLF projects. If there are
significant changes in the project after the issuance of the environmental
document, those changes will be described in an Amendment. Some changes are
minor, however, and the Department may determine that a separate Amendment
need not be issued. Such minor changes may include, but are not limited to:

C.

(a)

Changes in the size of pump stations, force mains, interceptor sewers, or
collection sewers.

(b)

Minor changes in the size of wastewater treatment unit processes.

(c)

Minor rerouting of sewer lines when the new route will not adversely
affect cultural resources, habitats of endangered or threatened species,
environmentally important natural resource areas, or other environmental
resources. All affected property owners must be notified of the rerouting
by the loan recipient and must be provided an opportunity to comment on
the proposed rerouting prior to initiation of construction.

Issuance of the Environmental Action
Copies of all environmental actions will be provided to the appropriate intergovernmental
review agencies listed in Rule 7.3.A.(2)(f). Copies of environmental actions will
also be sent to any agency, group or individual requesting them. All
environmental actions will also be published in an appropriate local newspaper.
All environmental actions will provide for at least a thirty day period from the date of
publication to receive comments from agencies groups, or individuals. All such
comments will be evaluated by the Department before finalizing any environmental
action.

411

