PART 1 – Standard Program Details/Requirements
I.

Goals of the Water Pollution Control (Clean Water) Revolving Loan Fund Program
The Commission on Environmental Quality has established certain goals for the Water
Pollution Control Revolving Loan Fund (WPCRLF) Program. Short term goals include:
1) Periodically consulting with financial advisors to develop revised operating policies and
procedures for the WPCRLF (Fund), with the goal of maximizing investment in project loans
and reducing idle cash, while maintaining proper stability and management of all aspects of
the Fund. 2) Implementing the additional federal requirements (as detailed in Part 2 of this
IUP) which now apply to the WPCRLF Program due to the passage of the Water Resources
Reform and Development Act (WRRDA), 2014, and due to the exhaustion of the banked
equivalency/cross-cutter compliance [which was applied from implementation of the “post
equivalency” WPCRLF Loan Program in FY-2001 until FY-2014], 3) Continuing to establish
priorities and procedures which will meet the long term environmental improvement goals of
the Commission, while keeping in focus the need to attract communities to the program and
insure the maximum wise use of all available funds, 5) Continuing to implement the Green
Project Reserve requirements during FY-20, 6) Continuing to implement the additional
subsidy requirement and to make any additional subsidy funds available to projects in
small/low income communities that otherwise might not be able to afford a project, and 7) To
the extent reasonably practical, continue to structure this program to coordinate with other
available funding programs within the State, particularly the CDBG, ARC, and RUS
programs, in order to make available the opportunity for joint funding of projects should
communities desire such an arrangement. The coordination procedures for WPCRLF
projects funded jointly with the CDBG, ARC, and/or RUS program are found in Section III.
Long term goals include: 1) maintaining a financially sound SRF in perpetuity; 2) meeting a
substantial portion of the wastewater needs in the State within a reasonable period of time,
while continuing to maintain a program that is attractive to the communities in the State; and
3) funding fiscally sound projects in order of environmental importance as established by the
Commission. Essential to achieving these goals is the determination of an interest rate and
loan repayment term which will generate sufficient fund income to meet the State's needs
within a reasonable period of time, but which is more attractive than private sector funding,
so as to bring communities into the program and insure use of all available funds. Toward
this end, the Commission intends to implement the program as further described in Section II.
The long term priorities for funding are described in the Priority System in Section IV, which
places first priority on projects that will bring existing wastewater facilities into compliance
with their final discharge limitations, as required by the federal Clean Water Act. Other
project categories will be funded in order of environmental importance as established within
the Priority System, and as available funds allow. All projects must be demonstrated to be
fiscally and environmentally sound through completion of a facilities plan, and its subsequent
approval by the Department of Environmental Quality.
The framework under which the WPCRLF loan program operates is established by two
documents. The first document is the State Revolving Fund Loan Program Operating
Agreement (Operating Agreement) between the Mississippi Department of Environmental
Quality and the Environmental Protection Agency, Region IV. This Operating Agreement
was agreed to by both parties and approved on May 25, 1995. The Operating Agreement

433

