(25)

(a)

Any person who violates a term, condition or schedule of compliance
contained within the permit or the Mississippi Water Pollution Control
Law is subject to the actions defined by law.

(b)

Except as provided in permit conditions on "Bypassing" and "Upsets"
(A.20 and 27 of this Rule) nothing in a permit shall be construed to relieve
the permittee from civil or criminal penalties for noncompliance.

(c)

It shall not be the defense of the permittee in an enforcement action that it
would have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order
to maintain compliance with the conditions of the permit.

Severability
The provisions of a permit are severable. If any provision of a permit, or the
application of any provision of a permit to any circumstances, is challenged or
held invalid, the validity of the remaining permit provisions and/or portions
thereof or their application to other persons or sets of circumstances, shall not be
affected thereby.

(26)

Compliance with Toxic Effluent Standards
The permittee shall comply with any toxic effluent standard or prohibition
(including any schedule of compliance specified in such effluent standard or
prohibition) established under Section 307(a) of the Federal Act. The permittee
shall comply with the applicable provisions of 40 CFR 122.42, which are
incorporated herein and adopted by reference.

(27)

Upsets
Facilities which experience upset conditions shall meet the conditions of 40 CFR
122.41(n), which is incorporated herein and adopted by reference, as follows:
(a)

Definition. "Upset" means an exceptional incident in which there is
unintentional and temporary noncompliance with technology based permit
effluent limitations because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
permittee. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused
by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or
improper operation.

(b)

Effect of an upset. An upset constitutes an affirmative defense to an
action brought for noncompliance with such technology based permit
effluent limitations if the requirements of 1.1.4.A.27.c. of this Rule are
met. Any determination made during administrative review of claims that
noncompliance was caused by upset, and before an action for
46

