or green “project” reserve priority list, or to any project on the FY-21 and After
Planning List which is ready for loan award.
“Green Project Reserve” Priority List – To be ranked on this list a project must
meet the definition of projects described in any of the WPCRLF Priority System
Categories as outlined in Section IV.E, below; and, at least 25% of the scope of
work must qualify as “green,” as determined by EPA’s 2012 CWSRF 10% Green
Project Reserve: Guidance for Determining Project Eligibility.
To ensure that “green projects” have a dedicated source of loan funds and will not
have to compete with “regular” projects for funding, the Department is setting
aside $9.5 million in available funds for “green” projects. Any funds not
obligated for “green project reserve” projects by September 15, 2020 may be
released and made available to any eligible loan recipient on the regular or small/
low income priority list, or to any project on the FY-21 and After Planning List
which is ready for loan award.
During its solicitation of projects for FY-20 funding the Department did not
receive sufficient eligible applications for green infrastructure, water or energy
efficiency improvements, or other environmentally innovative activities to be
able to obligate ten percent (10%) of the FY-20 allotment to “green projects.”
Therefore, in an effort to meet the “Green Project Reserve” objective, the
Department intends to continue pursuing “green” projects, and carry these FY-20
funds over into FY-21 to be obligated in the FY-21 Intended Use Plan.
Regular WPCRLF Priority List – All other ranked projects that do not qualify for
the Small/Low Income Communities Priority List or the “Green Project Reserve”
Priority List will be placed on the Regular WPCRLF Priority List.

-

2.

Projects will be placed on the applicable priority list according to priority ranking and
will be awarded loans based upon each project’s readiness to award.
-

The order of project categories in this Priority System reflect the
Department’s mission statement, “... to safeguard the health, safety and
welfare of present and future generations of Mississippians by conserving and
improving our environment and fostering wise economic growth through
focused research and responsible regulation.” The Department’s intent in
developing this priority system is to fund projects in the order of greatest
benefit to the public health and the environment, and within certain categories
to assist those communities that are least able to afford the needed
environmental facilities without a low interest loan available through this
program.

472

