E.

Priority System Categories
1.

The first category of projects on the Priority List will be the Segmented Projects.
These projects include any remaining segments of projects that previously received
funding for an integral portion of that project, and are necessary for the entire project
to be functional. Projects will be funded under this category in order of their regular
priority ranking provided they meet the deadlines established in Section F.
In order to maintain continuity, the Commission intends to make some amount of
funds available for each ongoing-segmented project. Preference in the amount of
funds to be provided will be given to the projects that received the earliest loan award
for their initial segment.

2.

The second category of projects will be the Previous Year Standby Projects. This
category of projects includes projects that 1) were listed on the previous year’s
Planning List within an amount of approximately 25% of that year’s total available
funds, 2) met all applicable Priority System deadlines in the previous fiscal year, and
3) were not funded because of a lack of WPCRLF funds or did not receive an
assurance of CDBG, ARC, RUS, CIAP or other match funding in the previous fiscal
year. Within this category, these projects will be ranked according to the current
Priority System.

3.

The third category of projects will be the Raw Discharge Correction Projects for
communities with sewage collection systems but no treatment facilities. This is
necessary to ensure that the water quality problems associated with continuous
discharges of untreated sewage from these systems are addressed as required by the
federal Clean Water Act. Projects within this category will be ranked in order of the
highest estimated discharge flow rate.
If a project in this category is identified as a high priority BMA project, that project
will be ranked at the beginning of the list within this category.

4.

The fourth category of projects will be the Existing Facilities Upgrade (Not Meeting
Final Limits) Projects. The scope of these projects may include only the upgrade,
expansion, replacement, rehabilitation, and repair (including infiltration/inflow
removal) of existing wastewater transportation and treatment facilities, or drinking
water sludge discharge treatment facilities, necessary to bring the existing treatment
facility into compliance with final effluent limitations, or to eliminate existing
facilities not meeting final limits. Projects will be funded under this category in order
of priority points, provided they meet the deadlines established in the Priority
System. The priority points will be determined as established in Section G of this
Priority System. These projects will not be considered for funding if a Commission
Order schedule requires construction of these projects substantially prior to the
Priority System deadlines

476

