If a project in this category is identified as a high priority BMA project, that project
will be ranked at the beginning of the list within this category.
5.

The fifth category will be Non-Point Source and Storm Water Pollution Correction
Projects which may include program costs, conservation easements, sedimentation
basins, levees, canals and other structures for the purpose of correcting non-point and
storm water sources of pollution.
These projects must be consistent with any applicable Section 319 Management
Programs approved by the Department of Environmental Quality. The projects
within this category will be ranked in order of the highest receiving stream
classification that is being negatively impacted by these sources of pollution.
Receiving stream classifications will be ranked in the following order: Public Water
Supply; Shellfish Harvesting; Recreation; Fish & Wildlife; and Ephemeral. Within
each stream classification, projects will be ranked by the highest acreage of runoff
that is contributing to the non-point and/or storm water sewer pollution problem, and
that will be addressed by the project.
If a project in this category is identified as a high priority BMA project, that project
will be ranked at the beginning of the list within the subcategory where the project is
currently ranked.

6.

The sixth category will be the New Collection – Existing Buildings Projects that are
necessary to construct eligible sewers and treatment facilities for existing (at the time
of facilities plan submittal) residences, businesses and public buildings. Projects in
this category may not include the construction of wastewater treatment or
transportation facilities to serve areas that are not developed at the time of facilities
plan submittal.
The system for ranking collection systems is designed to give highest ranking to
those projects serving an individual drainage basin within the loan recipient’s
political boundaries that: 1) will correct the most potential health problems (this is
described below by the term “Residences Served”) and 2) are most cost effective (this
is described below by the term "Residences Served/Total Eligible Cost for Entire
Project"). Priority points will then be calculated as follows:
Priority Pts. = (Residences Served) x (Residences Served) x 1000
(Total Eligible Cost for Entire Project)
If ties occur in priority points those projects will be ranked according to the highest
number of residences served. The term "residences served" includes businesses and
public buildings.

The term "Total Eligible Cost for Entire Project" means the total eligible cost to
construct the collection and interceptor system for an individual drainage basin within

477

