F.

9.

The ninth category will be New Facilities (Developmental) Projects. These projects
may include the expansion or upgrade of existing wastewater treatment and
transportation facilities and the construction of new wastewater treatment and
transportation facilities to accommodate future growth within the design flow for the
planning area to be served. Transportation facilities may include interceptors, pump
stations, force mains, and collector lines. The projects within this category will be
ranked from the lowest to the highest 2019 median household income for the
community, as displayed in the publication "ERSI Business Analyst Demographic
and Income Profile Report”.

10.

The tenth and final category will be Industrial Projects. The facilities to be built or
upgraded under this category must be owned and constructed by a WPCRLF loan
eligible public entity and may include industrial wastewater treatment and
transportation facilities. The projects within this category will be ranked from the
lowest to the highest 2019 median household income for the community, or nearest
community, as displayed in the publication "ERSI Business Analyst Demographic
and Income Profile Report”.

11.

New collection sewer projects will be funded only under the New Collection –
Existing Buildings category or the New Facilities (Developmental Projects) category.

12.

The complete treatment portion of a project, as necessary to cause the wastewater
treatment facility to meet final limits, must be funded prior to or along with any other
project portion, except in the case of a recently acquired facility that has or will be
given interim limits with a schedule to meet the final limits. In such case other
project portions may be funded first provided the facility complies with the schedule
to meet final limits.

Priority System Deadlines
1. By December 15, 2019*, the loan applicant must submit to MDEQ the complete
WPCRLF facilities plan, prepared in accordance with the WPCRLF loan program
regulations and the “Guidance For Water Pollution Control Revolving Loan Fund
Projects Funded Beginning Federal FY 2016 (October 1, 2015 and After).” A complete
WPCRLF facilities plan includes all IGR agency comments; a copy of the public notice
for the proposed project; copies of any comments received from the public; and, a
summary of how each comment was addressed. The loan applicant should also submit
one copy of the facilities plan to the Rural Utilities Service (formerly Farmers Home
Administration) if the loan applicant has existing debt with Rural Utilities Service, along
with a request for their approval to incur this additional debt.
Any significant changes made to the facilities plan (i.e., changes in the chosen
alternative, location of the facility, cost increases that substantially affect the financial
capability of the loan recipient, etc.) after this date will be considered as a first submittal
of the facilities plan. The loan applicant will then be considered to be in violation of this
Priority System deadline and the project will be placed on the planning portion of the

480

