use, etc. In calculation of "equivalent stream miles" it is assumed that
a typical stream width is 50 feet. The area (in square feet) of the
estuary impacted, as determined by the math model, is then divided
by {50 feet x 5,280 feet/mile} to give the "equivalent stream miles".
Equivalent stream miles will only be calculated for bay-like estuary
segments. All other estuary segments will be measured in actual
miles like freshwater streams.
For streams impacted by more than one discharge, the D.O. problem
factor will be determined by using the difference between the D.O.
factor with all discharges and the D.O. factor considering the
discharge in question removed. If there is more than one discharge
from the same project on the same stream, miles impacted will only
be counted once.
ii.

Public Health/Bacteria Problem Factor - This factor will be
determined based on whether or not the existing discharge has a
bacterial impact on Recreational, Water Supply, Shellfish Harvesting
or Fish & Wildlife waters. Discharges into Ephemeral waters are
considered to have no bacterial impact, unless a public health problem
can be documented in the receiving stream.
A discharge into Recreational, Water Supply, or Fish & Wildlife
waters is considered to have a bacterial impact on such waters if the
discharge is not disinfected, or if present disinfection facilities are
inadequate. A discharge is considered to have a bacterial impact on
Shellfish harvesting waters if the National Shellfish Sanitation
Program Criteria are not met in the waters impacted by the discharge
or if present disinfection facilities are inadequate.
Factors will be assigned for the bacteria problem as follows:
No Impact
- 0
Bacteria Impact - 20

iii.

Ammonia Toxicity Problem Factor - This factor will be determined
by use of the NH3, and flow values specified in the present limitations
of the NPDES permit, unless significantly different from the present
effluent characteristics. If an NH3 limit is not present in the permit, an
NH3 concentration typical of the effluent from the current facility will
be selected. As with the Dissolved Oxygen Problem Factor, these
limitations will be entered into the standard wasteload allocation
formula and an in-stream NH3 concentration will be predicted for the
existing wastewater discharge. The NH3 exceedance is the difference
between the predicted maximum NH3 in the stream and the acceptable
concentration (EPA Gold Book) protective of aquatic life.

483

