This ammonia exceedance is then multiplied by the stream miles (or
equivalent stream miles) which presently have an NH3 concentration
above the acceptable level to obtain the Ammonia Toxicity Problem
Factor as shown below:
Ammonia Toxicity Problem Factor = (NH3 exceedance) X (stream or
equivalent Stream miles above acceptable concentration)
iv.

Chlorine Toxicity Problem Factor - This factor will be determined by
the difference in the previously allowed chlorine concentration in the
NPDES permit (usually 1.0 mg/l) and the new maximum chlorine
concentration allowed in the NPDES permit which will be multiplied
by a factor of 20.
Chlorine Toxicity Problem Factor = (1.0 mg/l - the new maximum
chlorine concentration allowed in the NPDES permit in mg/l) X (20)

c.

Achievement of Stream Use Factor - If the proposed project, along with other
proposed projects in the planning area, will cause achievement of all water
quality criteria then a factor of 2 will be assigned; except that if a stream
exception has been granted a factor of 1 will be assigned. Also, a factor of 1
will be assigned when all water quality criteria will not be met.

2. The projects in this category which eliminate existing discharges will receive the sum of the
priority points assigned to the discharges to be eliminated.
3. All portions of these projects (such as pump stations, force mains, sewer rehabilitation, and
interceptors) that are necessary to cause the environmental problem to be eliminated will receive
the same number of priority points as that calculated for the existing discharge(s), to which the
project portion is connected.
4. Project ties in priority points, which are calculated in accordance with Section B., will be
broken by ranking in order of the following ratio:
lbs. BOD Removed by Project
Total Eligible Cost for Project
5.

Projects in this category that are not meeting final limits, but for which zero priority
points are calculated (i.e., suspended solids violations, percent removal, BOD
violations, etc.), will receive a minimum of 1.0 priority point, and will then be ranked
in order of the stream classification of the receiving stream.

484

