(g)

(29)

The requirements regarding the disposal of pollutants into wells, into
publicly owned treatment works or by land application contained in 40
CFR 122.50 are incorporated herein and adopted by reference.

Monitoring of Discharges Authorized by All Permits: Recording and Reporting
(a)

A permittee required to monitor a waste discharge pursuant to Rule
1.1.4.A.28 shall maintain records of all information obtained from such
monitoring, including the date, place and time of sampling; the dates
analyses were performed; the person performing the analyses; the
analytical techniques, procedures or methods used; and the results of such
analyses. All records and results of monitoring activities, including
calibration and maintenance records, shall be retained by the permittee a
minimum of three (3) years unless otherwise required or extended by the
Permit Board, copies of which shall be furnished to the Department upon
request. Except for data determined to be confidential under the
Mississippi Air and Water Pollution Control Law, all reports prepared in
accordance with the terms of this permit shall be available for public
inspection at the offices of the Department.

(b)

The Permit Board may require a permittee to report periodically the results
of all required monitoring activities undertaken by the permittee on an
appropriate reporting form supplied by the Permit Board. The Permit
Board shall notify the permittee of the frequency of reporting. For State
permits and NPDES permits, the monitoring frequency shall not be less
than once/year and for Pretreatment permits, the frequency shall not be
less than twice/year.

(c)

Upon written request of the Regional Administrator (or his/her designee),
the Executive Director shall transmit any reporting form or other
monitoring information required by this regulation.

(d)

Any permittee who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method required by the Permit Board
to be maintained as a condition in a permit, or who alters or falsifies the
results obtained by such devices or methods and/or any written report
required by or in response to a permit condition, shall be deemed to have
violated a permit condition and shall be subject to the penalties provided
for a violation of a permit condition pursuant to Section 49-17-43 of the
Code.

(e)

Twenty-four hour reporting.
(1)

The permittee shall report any noncompliance which may endanger
health or the environment. Any information shall be provided
49

