F.

Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)/Governmental Accounting Standards
Board (GASB) {WRRDA Section 5002}:
All WPCRLF loan recipients are now required to maintain project accounts according to
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) as issued by the Governmental
Accounting Standards Board (GASB), including standards relating to the reporting of
infrastructure assets. A corresponding GAAP Certification must be submitted with the
loan application.
The most recent applicable standard is GASB Statement No. 34 (GASB 34), issued in
June 1999, which details governmental reporting requirements including standards for
reporting of infrastructure assets. Further details on the requirements, as well as the full
text of GASB 34, can be obtained through the GASB.

G.

Loan Term/Useful Life {WRRDA Section 5003(2)}:
The maximum CWSRF loan term allowed by federal law was changed from twenty years
to the lesser of thirty years and the “projected useful life of the project.” The current
WPCRLF loan terms and interest rates available as a result of implementation of this new
provision are outlined in Part 1, Section II.c., j., and k. of this Intended Use Plan.
Regarding the “useful life” limitation, the Department has confirmed with EPA that, in
view of the WPCRLF loan award history, the following approach is acceptable. For
treatment works projects funded with WPCRLF loans with repayment terms of 20 years
or less, the useful life will be considered to be at least 20 years, with no additional
documentation or project-specific determination required. For treatment works projects
to be funded with WPCRLF loans with repayment terms greater than 20 years, and for
any non-treatment works projects, additional documentation supporting the project useful
life may be required, and a project-specific useful life determination will be made and
included in the project files. Each applicable project’s Loan Application File will be
documented with a copy of a corresponding useful life determination memo, which
confirms this approach.

H.

Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act (CrossCutter):
All WPCRLF loan recipients are now required to comply with the federal “Uniform Act.”
The implementing regulations can be found at 49CFR24.101 through 24.105. To confirm
compliance, the Loan Recipient and Title Counsel must submit the “Limited Site
Certificates for Projects Funded Beginning FY 2015” and “Clear Site Certificates for
Projects Funded Beginning FY 2015” by the date(s) specified in the loan agreement.

I.

Executive Order 12549-Debarment and Suspension (Cross-Cutter):
In order to ensure compliance with this executive order, all WPCRLF-funded
construction contracts must include MDEQ’s “Supplementary Information for Bidders”
dated December 11, 2015, verbatim.

492

