2.

have selected, to the maximum extent practicable, a project or activity that
maximizes the potential for efficient water use, reuse, recapture, and conservation,
and energy conservation, taking into account:
(i) the cost of constructing the project or activity;
(ii) the cost of operating and maintaining the project or activity over the life of the
project or activity; and
(iii) the cost of replacing the project or activity

The Cost and Effectiveness Certification must be submitted with the facilities plan in order
for the plan to be considered “complete.”
O.

Additional Subsidy Funding/Affordability Criteria (WRRDA Section 5003):
Similar to the additional subsidy provision in the FY-2010 through FY-2014 CWSRF
appropriations language, WRRDA included a provision allowing the states to provide a
limited amount of “additional subsidization” each FY, but with more limitations than were
included in prior years’ appropriations language.
This provision also requires the establishment of “affordability criteria” to be used in
determining additional subsidy eligibility; and, stipulates that the criteria must be “based on
income and unemployment data, population trends, and other data determined relevant
by the State, including whether the project or activity is to be carried out in an
economically distressed area, as described in section 301 of the Public Works and
Economic Development Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3161).” Therefore, using these
stipulations to build on the existing WPCRLF “Small/Low Income Community” subsidy
criteria, MDEQ currently will use the following as the affordability criteria for
subsidization made available through FY-2015 and subsequent capitalization grants:
1) The community must be a “Small/Low Income Community” with a population of
4,000 or less, and Median Household Income (MHI) of $40,000 or less.
2) If the community’s population is confirmed to have been declining for the last three
consecutive years, it will receive one “subsidy point.”
3) If the community’s unemployment rate is confirmed to have been increasing for the
last three consecutive years, it will receive one “subsidy point.”
4) If the project is confirmed to be in an economically distressed area (per Section 301
of 42 USC 3161), it will receive one “subsidy point.”
5) The qualifying projects will be ranked for subsidization first based on highest to
lowest number of “subsidy points,” and then from lowest to highest MHI.
Subsidy funding details and conditions are further described in Section IV.D.1.

P.

Signage (Non-statutory EPA Mandate):
EPA has begun requiring (as a condition of receiving future capitalization grants) that
WPCRLF-funded projects include signage which details EPA’s involvement in the project.
Accordingly, Loan Recipient must now ensure that a project-specific EPA Public
Awareness Notification (provided by MDEQ) is displayed on a bulletin board/sign in a
prominent location at the project site for the duration of the contract. The Notification

494

