Monitoring data and information that may be considered when assessing state waters could
include chemical, physical, bacteriological, toxicological, and/or biological (e.g.,
macroinvertebrate, fish, and algal community measurements) data. In addition to using MDEQgenerated data, MDEQ solicits and considers all readily available data and information within
the assessment window collected by other Federal, State, local agencies/organizations, and the
public. Data generated by MDEQ, other agencies, and individuals should be of the quality
necessary to make credible and realistic assessment decisions on the condition of the state’s
waters. Whenever possible, data needs to be of the highest quality and developed using
sampling and analytical protocols and standard operating procedures recognized by state and
EPA quality assurance program plans. This data solicitation effort is facilitated through
MDEQ’s Basin Management Approach.

B. Designated Uses
The water quality assessment process begins with the collection and compilation of the available
data followed by the analysis of water quality data and information for the purpose of
determining the quality of the state’s surface water resources. Surface waters in Mississippi are
used for a number of purposes including drinking water supply, shellfish harvesting, recreation,
fishing, and aquatic life use support (ALUS). Water bodies are designated and assigned various
use classifications by MDEQ in the state’s Water Quality Standards (11 Miss. Admin. Code Pt.
6, Ch. 2) {WQS}. This designation is made based on the use(s) of the water body as identified
by the public and other entities. The use classifications and associated USEPA designated uses
for water quality assessment purposes recognized by the State of Mississippi are given in Table
1.

Table 1 Water Body Classification
Water Body Classification
Public Water Supply
Recreation
Fish and Wildlife

USEPA Associated Designated Use
Drinking Water Supply
Contact Recreation
Aquatic Life Use, Fish Consumption,
Secondary Contact Recreation
Shellfish Consumption

Shellfish Harvesting

6

