Physical and chemical data include such parameters as pH, temperature, dissolved oxygen,
toxicants, turbidity, total dissolved solids (TDS), and specific conductance. Biological data
include the community structure of aquatic insects, other macroinvertebrates, fish, and/or algae.
Bacteriological data include water column surveys for fecal coliform bacteria, E coli, or
enterococci bacteria. Fish tissue data include the analyses of fish flesh for the presence of toxic
organic chemicals and metals. The length of record of the data, the quality of the data, and the
frequency at which the data are collected were considered in making use attainment decisions.
For 2020, MDEQ considered all known and readily available information on the quality of the
state's waters in conjunction with the rotating basin approach and MDEQ’s §305(b) assessment
program. However, only data that allowed for the accurate interpretation of the state’s water
quality standards or provided compelling evidence were used for §303(d) listing decisions.
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

RULE 9.4 FISH AND SHELLFISH CONSUMPTION
ADVISORIES AND IMPAIRED WATERS
Non-attainment of the fish consumption use was assessed for a water body based on the presence
of a fish consumption advisory supported by fish tissue monitoring data. Water bodies with fish
consumption advisories, “restricted” or “no consumption,” were assessed as not attaining the fish
consumption use support designation. A list of fish consumption advisories can be found on the
MDEQ website at:
https://www.mdeq.ms.gov/water/field-services/fish-advisories-fish-tissue-and-fishing-bans/
Coastal water bodies with the Shellfish designated use that have consumption advisories are not
included in the 2020 §303(d) List because these waters already have completed TMDLs for
pathogens. These waters have a category 4A in the state's §305(b) report. These TMDLs are
available for review on MDEQ’s website.
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

RULE 9.5 LAYOUT OF THE TABLES
A. Stream Listings
The impaired waters in Tables 3-5 below are sorted alphabetically by the river basin then by the
water body name. The extent of the segment is described beginning with the upstream boundary
thence to the downstream boundary. The maps of these segments are located in Appendix A.

9

