B. Pollutants Included
The pollutants are listed
specifically for each listing.
2020 303(d) Pollutants
There are 279 listings for 2020.
Biological Impairment is listed
242 times (86.7%). This listing
is generated based on assessing
the result of our benthic
sampling program M-BISQ.
When the water body is scored
below the eco-regional value, it
is added to the impaired waters
list. A stressor identification
process is then used to identify
the specific pollutants causing
the microbiological impairment.
Organic Enrichment, Total
Nitrogen, and Total Phosphorus
Biological Impairments, 242
Chlorides, 1
Organic Enrichment, 6
Pathogens, 2
listings are for excessive
pH, 9
Sediment, 7
nutrients or organics which
Total Nitrogen, 7
Total Phosphorus, 5
impact the dissolved oxygen
and eutrophication in the water body. The pH listings are from water monitoring results which
are outside of the water quality criteria for pH. If there are multiple pollutants and/or uses for a
water body, these are shown as multiple listings for the water body.

C. Pollutant Source
Due to the nature of the monitoring and listings for 2020, the source of the impairment is
generally not known. For the biological listings a stressor identification process is required to
identify probable primary stressors. Once identified, these probable primary stressors are
incorporated into the ยง303(d) List and the biological impairment listing is removed.

D. Water Body Identification Numbers
MDEQ and USGS completed work on the new 12-digit watershed-based delineation of
Mississippi in 2005. MDEQ incorporated this new delineation into the identification numbering
system for water body segments in the states beginning with the 2006 ยง305(b) report. Each listed
water body segment is identified by a six-digit numeric code. The first digit identifies which
basin contains the water body. The major river basins are numbered 1 through 9 in alphabetical
order (1 for the Big Black River Basin, 2 for the Coastal Streams Basin, through 9 for the Yazoo
Basin.) [See map on page 4.] The next three digits in the six-digit water body identification
number refer to the specific subwatershed within that basin. Each major river basin has the
subwatersheds it contains numbered beginning with 1 (subwatershed 146 located in the Big
10

