during the period of depreciation or amortization of the facility for the
purpose of Sections 167 and 169, or both, of the Internal Revenue Code of
1954, whichever period ends first.
(b)

G.

The protection from more stringent standards of performance afforded by
subparagraph a. of this rule does not apply to conditions based upon water
quality standards, or to toxic effluent standards or prohibitions under
Section 307(a) of the Federal Act, or to any other toxic pollutants or
hazardous substances not controlled by standards of performance.

(3)

Permit Requirements for NPDES Permits: Criteria Standards.
The criteria standards for NPDES permits found in 40 CFR 125, subparts A, B, D,
G, H, I, J, M, N, and 40 CFR 129, 133 are incorporated herein and adopted by
reference.

(4)

The additional conditions applicable to specified categories of NPDES permits
contained in 40 CFR 122.42 are incorporated herein and adopted by reference.

NPDES Mineral Mining and Processing Permits

As part of the conditions for issuing a wastewater treatment permit for mineral mining and
processing, the following shall be applicable:
(1)

A site inspection shall be performed by the Department to ensure compliance with
siting criteria set forth in Rule 1.1.1.C.2.

(2)

The applicant shall demonstrate to the Permit Board it has obtained or filed
complete applications for necessary storm water permits or coverages and for
mining permits (through the Office of Geology). Failure to obtain or submit
complete applications for those permits or coverages shall constitute grounds for
denial of the NPDES mineral mining and processing permit.

(3)

Structural Integrity.
(a)

Any lagoon, sedimentation pond, or dredge pit must have an emergency
discharge structure installed at least 24 inches above the normal operating
fluid level, said discharge structure being at least 24 inches below the
lowest point on the top of the containment dike.

(b)

Dikes and any other appurtenant structures must be constructed utilizing
accepted engineering designs, standards, methodologies and materials. A
professional engineer registered in the State of Mississippi shall certify the
adequacy of construction.

(c)

Dikes shall be maintained in good working order at all times. There shall
be no leaks through dikes. Any damaged dike shall be replaced or
54

