repaired immediately upon discovering any deficiency. All earthen dikes
shall be maintained with adequate cover, such that the effects of erosion
are minimized.
(d)

(4)

The permittee shall develop and maintain a daily inspection log for the
facility. This log should include, but not be limited to, the following;
condition of all dikes, observance of the area around the dikes to indicate
any water pollution problems and the volume of wastewater accumulating
within the dike. The date, time and person making the inspection should
also be included in this log.

Sand and Gravel Permits. Special Conditions.
When a mining activity is adjacent to a stream, a buffer zone shall be maintained
between the edge of the mining activity and the highest point of the top bank of
the stream. The buffer zone widths shall be the same as those set forth in Rule
1.3.4.C.3.(a)(1), (2) and (3). The buffer zone shall not be disturbed by any of the
facility's activities.

H.

NPDES Animal Waste Permits Only

An NPDES animal waste permit shall contain the following (in addition to the requirements set
forth in C. of this Rule):
(1)

Releases in Excess of the 25-year, 24-hour Storm Event.
Process waste pollutants in the overflow may be discharged to waters of the U.S.
whenever rainfall events, either chronic or catastrophic, cause an overflow of
process waste water from a facility designed, constructed and operated to contain
all process generated waste waters plus the runoff from a 25-year, 24-hour rainfall
event for the location of the point source. There shall be no effluent limitations
on discharges from detention structures constructed and maintained to contain the
25-year, 24-hour storm event if the discharge is the result of a rainfall event which
exceeds the design capacity and proper maintenance is done. Retention structures
shall have capacity to contain all process wastewaters plus the 25-year, 24-hour
storm event.

(2)

Proper Operation and Maintenance Requirements.
The facilities covered by the permit are required to document the attainment of all
Best Management Practices (BMPs) used to comply with the effluent limitations
in the permit. Where applicable, equivalent measures contained in a site specific
Animal Waste Management Plan, if prepared by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture Soil Conservation Service (NRCS), may be substituted for the Best
Management Practices and Pollution Prevention Plan requirements in the permit.
Where provisions in the Soil Conservation Service plan are substituted for
55

