Pursuant to 40 CFR 122.26(c), storm water general permits shall require that a Storm Water
Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) be submitted with the Notice of Intent (NOI) for coverage
unless otherwise addressed in the general permit. The SWPPP shall include, but not be limited
to, the information required by the Storm Water NPDES General Permit.
J.

Sewage Sludge Use or Disposal Requirements

The use and disposal of sewage sludge shall be in accordance with 40 CFR 503 - Standards for
the Use or Disposal of Sewage Sludge, which are incorporated herein and adopted by reference.
In the event the use and/or disposal of sludge involve incineration resulting in air emissions, a
permit to construct and/or operate will be required in accordance with Regulation Title 11, Part
2, Chapter 2, "Permit Regulation for the Construction and/or Operation of Air Emissions
Equipment".
K.

UIC Permits
(1)

The UIC program for Class I, III, IV and V wells in the State of Mississippi was
approved by EPA and became effective on September 26, 1983. Unless otherwise
required herein, all owners or operators of Class I, III, IV or V wells, all
applicants for UIC permits, and the Director of the UIC program shall comply
with applicable provisions of 40 CFR 144, 146, 147.1250 subpart Z and 148,
which are incorporated herein and adopted by reference, except as follows:
(a)

Where federal regulations use the phrase “for EPA administered programs
only,” those portions of the federal regulations are not applicable to the
Mississippi program and

(b)

All regulations applicable to Class II wells are excluded from the
aforementioned adoption since EPA has granted to the Mississippi State
Oil and Gas Board the authority to regulate Class II wells.

(2)

Unless otherwise provided herein, the UIC program shall be operated in
compliance with the provisions of 40 CFR incorporated by reference in this
paragraph.

(3)

Classification of Injection Wells
Notwithstanding 40 CFR 144.6 and 146.5, for the purposes of these regulations,
injection wells are classified as follows:
(a)

Class I.
(1)

Wells used by generators of hazardous waste or owners or
operators of hazardous waste management facilities to inject
hazardous waste beneath the lowermost formation containing,

57

