(e)

(2)

Wells used by generators of hazardous waste or of radioactive
waste, by owners or operators of hazardous waste management
facilities or by owners or operators of radioactive waste disposal
sites to dispose of hazardous waste or radioactive waste into a
formation which within 5 miles of the well contains an
underground source of drinking water.

(3)

Wells used by generators of hazardous waste or owners or
operators of hazardous waste management facilities to dispose of
hazardous waste, which cannot be classified under 40 CFR 146.5
(a)(1) or 40 CFR 146.5 (d)(1) or (2) (e.g., wells used to dispose of
hazardous waste into or above a formation which contains an
aquifer which has been exempted pursuant to 40 CFR 146.04).

Class V. Injection wells not included in Class I, II, III, or IV.
Typically, Class V wells are shallow wells used to place a variety of fluids
directly below the land surface. However, if the fluids placed in the
ground qualify as a hazardous waste under the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA), the well shall be considered either a Class I or
Class IV well, not a Class V well. Specific types of Class V injection
wells are described in 40 CFR 144.81.

(4)

Rules and Regulations for Injection Wells
(a)

Class I Wells.
(1)

Prohibition of Commercial Hazardous Waste Injection Wells.
In accordance with Miss. Code Ann. Section 17-17-27, Class I
hazardous waste wells are prohibited, except such wells located on
the generation site of hazardous waste generated in the production
of oil or gas or in a commercial or manufacturing operation.
Commercial hazardous waste underground injection wells
designed or intended to dispose of multiple, non-homogeneous
types of wastes from multiple sources other than the owner of the
well are prohibited.

(2)

Requirements for a New Class I Well.
(i)

No person shall receive a permit for a new Class I well
when the waste can be reasonably and adequately disposed
by other methods.

(ii)

Factors to be considered in determining whether
underground injection or some other method of disposal

59

