(2)

O.

(c)

The permittee must report once per year on any discharge occurrence.
The report must contain date, time, circumstances, and duration of
discharge.

(d)

The permittee must have completed construction within 12 months of date
of issuance of this permit. Failure to submit certification of completion of
construction, as designed, may result in revocation of permit.

Dry
(a)

Dry litter facilities shall have no discharge of process wastewater or
contaminated stormwater.

(b)

The Permittee shall implement an approvable Comprehensive Nutrient
Plan.

(c)

The Permittee must have completed construction within 12 months of date
of issuance of this permit. Failure to submit certification of completion of
construction, as designed, may result in revocation of permit.

State Mineral Mining and Processing Permits.

State No-Discharge permits shall contain as a minimum, the following requirements:
(1)

No Discharge of Wastewater to Surface Water. The discharge of any wastewater
from the facility to the waters of the State of Mississippi shall constitute a
violation of the permit, except as provided in the permit, or as authorized under
separate permit pursuant to Section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act.

(2)

Structural Integrity.
(a)

Any lagoon, sedimentation pond, or dredge pit must have an emergency
discharge structure installed at least 24 inches above the normal operating
fluid level, said discharge structure being at least 24 inches below the
lowest point on the top of the containment dike

(b)

Dikes and any other appurtenant structures must be constructed utilizing
accepted engineering designs, standards, methodologies and materials. A
professional engineer registered in the State of Mississippi shall certify the
adequacy of construction.

(c)

Dikes shall be maintained in good working order at all times. There shall
be no leaks through dikes, any damaged dike shall be replaced or repaired
immediately upon discovering any deficiency, and all earthen dikes shall
65

