(2)

In addition to the requirements provided in 1.a. above, Permit transfers are further
regulated as follows:
(a)

"Transfer" shall mean any sale, conveyance, or assignment of the rights
held by the applicant in any permit issued pursuant to these regulations.
Any change of more than 50 percent of the equity ownership of the permit
holder over a sustained period which results in a new majority owner shall
constitute a transfer. A new majority owner for purposes of this provision
shall be an individual, partnership, company, or group of affiliated
companies.

(b)

A permit issued pursuant to these regulations shall not be transferred
except upon approval of the Permit Board.
A permit transfer shall be approved if the applicant for transfer approval
can demonstrate to the Permit Board it has the financial resources,
operational expertise and environmental compliance history over the last
five years to insure compliance with the terms and conditions of the permit
transferred except where this conflicts with State law.

(c)

(d)

D.

The application for approval of the transfer may be combined with an
early application for permit renewal.

(3)

If the permittee requests a modification of a State, UIC, or NPDES permit which
will neither cause the original compliance schedule to be extended more than four
(4) months, nor cause an increase in the effluent limits, the modification may be
immediately granted by the Permit Board. The Regional Administrator (or his/her
designee) will be advised of any NPDES or UIC permit modification granted
pursuant to this subpart.

(4)

If the permittee requests a modification of a state, UIC, or NPDES permit which
will cause the original compliance schedule to be extended more than four (4)
months, or cause effluent limitations to be less stringent prior to the Permit Board
granting such modification of an NPDES or UIC permit, the Regional
Administrator (or his/her designee) shall be given a reasonable time as agreed
between the State and EPA in which to object in writing and any such objections
shall be resolved before the modification is granted.

(5)

Permit Actions. The permit may be modified, revoked and reissued, or
terminated for cause. The filing of a request by the permittee for a permit
modification, revocation and reissuance, or termination, or a notification of
planned changes or anticipated noncompliance, does not stay any permit
condition.

Enforcement

70

