(3)

The Department may exempt domestic wastewater facilities with discharges less
than 1,500 gpd. Commercial and institutional establishments installing treatment
works which
(a)

have a design capacity of 1,500 gallons per day or less, and

(b)

do not and will not involve a Department administered grant or loan, and

(c)

do not require a UIC permit, will normally not be required to submit plans
and specifications for the treatment works to the Department.
However, prior to beginning construction, it is required that the
Department be advised in writing, of the type and capacity of the system
to be constructed, and also the location of the discharge point if applicable.

(4)

The Department's receipt, comment, or approval of any document does not relieve
the project's owner, consulting engineer, contractor, equipment supplier, attorney,
or any other party of any liabilities or responsibilities. Department approval of or
comment on any document does not establish or convey any liability or
responsibility to the Department, nor does such represent any assurances that the
project will be able to comply with any permit requirements or otherwise
perform as intended by the owner, consulting engineer, contractor, equipment
supplier, attorney, or other parties. The permittee is responsible for complying
with all conditions of a permit and ensuring that all construction, operation, and
maintenance activities achieve such compliance.

(5)

All equipment, structures, facilities, and/or systems installed in accordance with
B.1., 2. or 6. of this Rule shall be maintained and operated in accordance with
A.18 of this Rule.

(6)

Except as excluded in 1.1.6.B.5. of this Rule, not later than 60 days after
completion of the project, the owner must, through a letter signed by a
professional engineer, certify to the Department that the project has been
constructed in accordance with final submitted plans and specifications. Where
significant changes to the plans and specification have been made, the
professional engineer must submit a list of changes with the certification letter. In
addition, as built plans and specifications for all municipal and domestic treatment
works, and sewage collection systems, must be submitted to the Department not
later than sixty (60) days after completion of the project.

(7)

All plans and specifications submitted to the Department must be developed by a
professional engineer who holds a valid certificate of registration as a professional
engineer issued by the Mississippi State Board of Registration for Professional
Engineers and Land Surveyors.

72

