(b)

B.

proposed use of any pollution control technique which assures compliance
with water quality standards.

General Technical Guidance
(1)

The specific pollutants expected to be in a discharge shall be determined from an
effluent characterization provided by the applicant which may be submitted in the
appropriate permit application. This characterization may include the long term
average and daily maximum pollutant concentrations and the ultimate
biochemical oxygen demand (BODu) for oxygen demanding waste. See Exhibit
A to this Subchapter.

(2)

An evaluation of the impact of a proposed or continued discharge on the water
quality of the receiving water body shall be conducted by the Department for all
permit applications. The Department shall review applications to determine
whether Technology Based Effluent Limitations ("TBELs") as contained in
Commission regulations are sufficient to maintain water quality standards in the
receiving water body. If TBELs are sufficient, the permit limits will be based on
those criteria. If TBELs are not protective of water quality standards, or if
additional information or analyses are determined to be necessary to ensure that
the effluent will not violate water quality standards in the receiving water body,
Water Quality Based Effluent Limitations ("WQBELs") shall be considered.

(3)

The establishment of WQBELs does not alleviate the discharger from complying
with all other applicable regulations of the Commission or with the requirements
of any other Mississippi, federal, or local law.

(4)

Effluent limitations based upon water quality standards and the provisions of
these regulations shall be determined by application of accepted scientific
methods. Accepted scientific methods shall be based upon, but not limited to, the
following:
(a)

analysis of the condition of the receiving water body including reasonably
expected ambient water quality and present and future flow conditions;
and

(b)

consideration of the nature, volume, and frequency of the existing and/or
proposed discharge of waste, under which the cumulative impact of
discharge is reasonably expected to be a maximum, including any possible
known synergistic effects with other pollutants or substances which may
be present in the receiving water body.

(c)

Nothing in a. or b. above, shall preclude the Department from establishing
WQBELs that vary on a seasonal or other basis.

75

