(5)

Sanitary sewage shall be disinfected in accordance with the requirements set forth
in Exhibit "B" to this Subchapter which is attached hereto and incorporated herein
by reference.

(6)

For determining TBELS, contaminants in intake water shall be handled in
accordance with 40 CFR 122.45(g).

(7)

In all cases, the Department shall be responsible for setting final WLAs, LAs,
TMDLs, and permit limits and requirements.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.
Rule 1.2.3 WQBEL Process.
A.

Water Quality Based Effluent Limits

The WQBEL process is a means of determining the available assimilative capacity of a water
body and setting WQBELs utilizing appropriate procedures for simulation and prediction of
water quality impacts. This process will be used unless the Department determines there are
adequate data to support a determination that the receiving water body currently meets water
quality standards and will continue to meet water quality standards with the discharge.
Computer models utilized include those approved and supported by the Commission and/or
EPA. The methodologies used for the WQBEL process are found in Exhibit A to this
Subchapter and in Rule 1.2.4 of this chapter. In the event the receiving water body's minimum
flow value used for allocation purposes is zero, permit limitations shall be modeled with the flow
equal to the effluent for conventional pollutants unless otherwise provided in these regulations.
The minimum CBOD model input for WQBEL permit limit determination will be equivalent to
the estimated background conditions for streams (2.0 CBODu) as indicated in Exhibit A.I.J.2.
The permittee may provide the necessary scientific information to support a less stringent limit.
B.

Modeling

Unless actual data or circumstances indicate otherwise, computer modeling is suitable for
developing effluent limitations in water bodies for the cases that follow:
(1)

sanitary wastewater having an effluent CBOD5 limitation of 30 mg/l to 45 mg/l
and/or an effluent CBOD5 limitation as defined secondary or equivalent
secondary requirements;

(2)

sanitary wastewater having an effluent CBOD5 limitation of less than 30 mg/l but
greater than or equal to 2 mg/l;

(3)

all effluent limits developed because of the threat of, or potential for, water
quality impacts due to toxicants;

76

