(4)

some oxygen demanding wastewaters, other than sanitary wastewater, which are
generated by industrial processes.
The State's specific conventional point source water quality modeling and WLA
criteria, including specific chlorine and ammonia requirements, are located in
Exhibit A to this Subchapter which is incorporated herein and adopted by
reference.

C.

Calibration Modeling

Calibration modeling and/or verification modeling and/or a water quality field assessment
(including physical, chemical, and/or biological water quality surveys) may be required for the
determination of WQBELs because of the consideration of factors as follows: the complexity of
the receiving water body, magnitude and impact or potential impact of the discharge, amount of
available data, aquatic life and/or human health concerns, and any other factor deemed necessary
by the Permit Board to protect water quality. The applicant may be required to provide the
necessary information.
D.

WQBEL Process Use

The WQBEL process may be utilized to determine new discharge permit limits and to evaluate
permit renewals when: a. the Department determines existing water quality data is insufficient to
evaluate expected water quality impacts, b. the Department determines the available assimilative
capacity of the water body is being completely utilized, either alone or in combination with other
discharges (including both point and nonpoint sources), c. the Department determines water
quality standards are being violated, or d. when the permittee so chooses (except for the purpose
of delaying implementation of a particular permit limit). The Department may reissue permits
which contain existing permit requirements if the data are adequate to support that the receiving
water body currently meets and will continue to meet water quality standards.
E.

WQBELs Apply to Watershed

When a WQBEL process is determined to be necessary, the analysis shall consider and
determine WQBELs for the permit applicant considering all affected discharger(s) to the
receiving water body, including both point and nonpoint sources.
F.

Quality Assurance

When an applicant is developing and/or conducting a verified and/or calibrated model and/or
conducting a water quality field assessment in the WQBEL process for submittal to the
Department, the applicant shall:
(1)

Provide the Department a copy of the Quality Management Plan (QMP) for the
entity performing the work. The QMP should be consistent with the most current
version of EPA’s Requirements for Quality Management Plan, EPA QA/R-2.

77

