considered valid in this regulation, unless a term is otherwise defined herein.
following definitions are applicable.

In addition, the

(1)

"Affected Discharger" is an existing permitted wastewater discharger, or a
proposed wastewater discharger, which has either a pending permit application or
a permit or is included in a State Revolving Fund ("SRF") Facilities Plan.

(2)

"Allowable Loading" or "available assimilative capacity" is that portion of the
loading capacity of a water body that is available for allocating to a point source
discharger(s) through regulation by the Department. It is the difference between
the loading capacity and the total loading of pollutants from other sources, such as
background, nonpoint sources, and exempt sources.

(3)

"Ambient water quality" means the physical, chemical and biological
characteristics of waters of the State.

(4)

"Applicant" means a person applying to the Permit Board for an individual State
permit, coverage under a State general permit, UIC permit, individual NPDES
permit or coverage under an NPDES general permit to discharge wastes or other
fluids into the waters of the State, or to operate a treatment works.

(5)

"Application" means either:
(a)

The uniform NPDES or UIC application form, current at the time
application is made,

(b)

A Notice of Intent form for coverage under an NPDES general permit, or a
State general permit, or

(c)

A State permit application form.

(6)

"Approved methods" means sampling and laboratory testing methods approved
by the Department, as specified in Rule 1.1.2 of these regulations.

(7)

"Assimilative capacity" means the capacity of a body of water or soil-plant
system to receive wastewater effluent or sludge without violating the provisions
of the State of Mississippi Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate, Interstate, and
Coastal Waters and these regulations.

(8)

"Background" shall mean the condition of waters in the absence of the activity or
discharge under consideration based on the best scientific information available to
the Department.

(9)

“Bypass” is defined in 40 CFR 122.41(m), as amended.

8

