C.

D.

(2)

Alternative methods may be utilized to determine the potential toxic effect of
ammonia.

(3)

Water in ephemeral streams shall be maintained at a quality which shall prevent
the occurrence of offensive conditions, protect public health, and allow (after
mixing) maintenance of all standards applicable to all downstream waters.

Dystrophic Waters.
(1)

Reasonable alternatives, including but not limited to, no discharge and land
application, shall be considered prior to allowing a new discharge or continuation
of an existing discharge.

(2)

Effluent limitations shall be set to allow a degradation of no more than 10% of the
background concentration when the background dissolved oxygen is at or below
the State's minimum dissolved oxygen criterion.

(3)

Discharges shall not increase toxicants above background concentrations for those
waters whose background exceeds the Water Quality Standards due to natural or
irretrievable man-induced conditions.

Shellfish Waters.

Waters classified as shellfish waters are generally classified to protect commercially or
recreationally harvestable shellfish resources. The Permit Board shall insure that permitted
discharges are located and have effluent limits such that impacts or potential impacts on the use
of shellfish waters shall be consistent with the National Shellfish Sanitation Program. For areas
with existing dischargers that impact shellfish water, other alternatives may be considered.
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.
Rule 1.2.6 Toxicity.
A.

General
(1)

Purpose and Scope. The purpose of this rule is to set forth a realistic and cost
effective procedure to screen, evaluate and reduce toxicity of wastewater
discharges. Additionally, the procedures described herein are designed to ensure
compliance with the Federal Act.

(2)

Summary of Procedure. Mississippi uses a three-step approach to toxicity
reduction. Step one involves a detailed review of the permit application and any
historical bioassay data and the use of specific screening procedures. The purpose
of this step is twofold. First of all, the Department identifies the universe of those
facilities which have discharges which are potentially toxic in stream. The
Department screening procedures evaluate a discharge's potential acute, chronic,
80

