month grace period for implementation of tests procedures described in
the most recent edition of the methods manuals. During this permit,
MDEQ will accept test results derived using either procedure, provided
the tests are conducted properly. The Permit Board may also require
appropriate tests on a plant species, if it deems necessary to protect human
health, welfare, or the environment.
(c)

C.

The Permit Board may require WET testing as a condition of a permit
application, as a condition of an NPDES permit, or as a condition of a
regulatory order. In the case of a permit modification, WET testing may
be required after the implementation of the modification. In addition, a
modified application may be required for evaluation of toxicity.

Application/Determination of Alternative Chemical Specific Limitations
(1)

The Permit Board shall issue NPDES permits with limits based on total
recoverable metals, when appropriate, as specified in 40 CFR 122.45, which is
incorporated herein and adopted by reference.

(2)

Alternative Chemical specific limitations for permits shall be calculated in
accordance with the methods set forth below.
(a)

The first method is the establishment of a site specific Biological
Translator that relates the existing water quality standard to a specific
permit limit using the water effects ratio (WER) procedure described in
Interim Guidance on Determination and Use of Water Effects Ratios for
Metals February 1994 EPA No. 823-B-94-001, Streamlined Water-Effect
Ratio Procedure for Discharge of Copper March 2001 EPA No. 822-R-01005 or the most recent edition.

(b)

The second method, applicable to metals, is the development of a
Chemical Translator using site specific data to determine the dissolved
fraction of the permitted metals. The water quality criterion is then
divided by the dissolved fraction to provide a value to be used in the
WLA. Two methods are available to the permittee for calculating the
dissolved fraction.
(1)

The dissolved fraction may be calculated from site specific Total
Suspended Solids (TSS) data and partitioning coefficients listed in
the Technical Guidance Manual for Performing Wasteload
Allocations. Book II: Streams and Rivers. Chapter 3 (EPA-440/484-022) which is referenced in the bibliography (Exhibit F to this
Chapter).

83

