D.

(3)

If the permittee opts to utilize methods a. and b. listed above, the results from
method a. will be applied since it is a more comprehensive procedure compared to
the relatively simple calculation of the dissolved fraction.

(4)

If the permittee does not opt to utilize methods a. or b., method c. shall be applied.

(5)

The application of any translator derived limitation does not preclude the
demonstration of toxicity requirements for other toxicants through the use of
WET tests as specified in the permit.

Procedures for Chemical Specific Screening.
(1)

Review data submitted with application (e.g. NPDES - 2C, 2D and 2E,
Pretreatment - State No Discharge Application)
Identify every toxic parameter in the permit and/or application above quantitation
levels 1 and set up a table for each outfall, listing for each parameter the
following2:
(a)

maximum concentration;

(b)

maximum 30-day average;

(c)

long term average; and

(d)

number of samples.
The following calculation conventions shall be utilized when using data
reported as non-detect or less than detection:
(1) Non-detect (ND) or less than at the appropriate quantitation levels
- use zero.
(2) If all data in the permit application are below quantitation levels, the
permittee should list the individual non-detect value with the highest
detection level reported as the maximum and not calculate an average.
The Department will not consider an application complete if the
concentrations required are reported as "N.D." (Not Detected) unless a

1

Where application form data are reported as "less than" (<) compare the method detection limit (MDL) as defined
in Appendix B of 40 CFR 136 which is incorporated herein and adopted by reference. MDLs will be utilized in
determining the reasonable potential of a given pollutant to violate water quality criteria. If a pollutant is reported as
"non-detectable" above the MDLs as defined in Appendix B of 40 CFR 136, the pollutant will be assumed to be
present at that reported level of sensitivity.
2

Note in some cases parameters limited by the permit may be below the minimum quantitation level.

85

