chemical by chemical listing of the quantitation levels used is provided
with the application.
(2)

Calculate/Determine Permit Limits.
Technology/federal guidelines based permit limits are calculated using current
facility data and federal guidelines. If existing permit limits are more stringent
and are being attained, use existing permit limits.

(3)

Calculate Appropriate Flows
Appropriate 7Q10 and annual average flows will be calculated in accordance with
the methods found in Techniques for Estimating 7-Day, 10-Year Low-Flow
Characteristics for Ungaged Sites on Streams in Mississippi (USGS Report 914130), and Low-Flow and Flow-Duration Characteristics of Mississippi Streams
(USGS Report 90-4087) or the most recent edition, respectively.

(4)

Determine IWC for Chronic, Acute, and Human Health Conditions3
Qw
IWC = 100 *
Qr + Qw

Where: IWC =
Instream Wastewater Concentration (where facility water supply is not
receiving water.)
Qr4
= Receiving water flow at appropriate low flow
Qw
= For non-domestic facilities - Maximum 30-day average wastewater flow, if available;
Domestic facilities - design flow; Hydrographic control release facilities - appropriate
wastewater to stream flow ratio.

3

For calculation of all instream waste concentrations, and instream pollutant concentrations for chronic toxicity and
human health screening, instantaneous complete mixing will be assumed unless addressed otherwise in the
regulations. IWC is expressed in a percentage throughout these regulations. For acute screening in streams and
rivers, complete mixing will be assumed if the IWC is greater than or equal to 10%. If the IWC is less than 10%, the
Permit Board may evaluate local acute toxic impacts and require application of mixing zones in accordance with the
Mississippi Water Quality Standards.
For oceans, bays, estuaries, and lakes, a Mixing Zone evaluation will be completed to determine the appropriate
dilution factors for calculating IWC at the edge of the (regulatory) mixing zone and at the edge of the smaller area of
discharged-induced mixing zone (ADIM). In the absence of a site specific evaluation, dilution at the edge of the
mixing zone will be assumed to be one part effluent to six parts receiving water body. Mixing zones and associated
instream calculations shall be performed as described in EPA's "Technical Support Document for Water QualityBased Toxics Control" (EPA/505/2-90-001) March 1991, which is referenced in the bibliography (Exhibit F to this
chapter).
4

Where Qr

=
(7Q10 for Acute)
=
(7Q10 for Chronic)
=
(Mean annual flow for Human Health)
If 7Q10 = 0 then Qr = 7Q10 for conditions except for human health and then Q r equals mean annual flow if available.

86

