A parameter fails the screen when the appropriate instream concentration or effluent
concentration (as per above) exceeds the appropriate criterion.
MDEQ will use the chronic and acute water quality criteria and/or values as described in State of
Mississippi Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate, Interstate, and Coastal Waters. If the
permittee's discharge evaluation is based on species not found in Mississippi, the permittee may
submit an alternative criterion as per the State's Water Quality Standards. However, said
criterion shall conform to EPA's accepted procedures / rationale and is subject to both State and
EPA approval.
E.

Toxicity Limits.

Chemical specific limits shall be placed in a permittee's permit if any of the parameters evaluated
in the toxic screening procedure indicate the reasonable potential for violation of the appropriate
criteria (Acute, Chronic, and Human Health). The only exception is when a permittee fails the
criteria due only to the application of the variability factor, that is a number of samples less than
12. In the case of the preceding exception, the permittee shall be required to monitor those
parameters at a frequency of at least once per month for twelve months with the toxicity
screening procedures being reapplied and the permit modified accordingly. The limits for the
subject parameters will not be established until the subject data is received.
Toxicity limitations may take two forms; (1) chemical specific numerical limitations placed on
the effluent, and/or (2) whole effluent bioassays with whole effluent toxicity (WET) limits.
Chemical numerical limits will be calculated by mass balance back to the effluent using the
appropriate instream criteria. The Permit Board will consider the utilization of alternative
approaches described in EPA's TSD for calculating WQBELs where sufficient supporting
documentation is submitted by the applicant. Mixing zones may be utilized in certain
circumstances as allowed in the "State of Mississippi Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate,
Interstate, and Coastal Waters".
In the absence of WET testing data, WET monitoring will be required upon failure of the acute
or chronic chemical specific criteria screening. Failure of WET testing will be a basis for permit
WET limitations. Failure will be defined as follows: an acute test that results in an LC50 < 3 *
IWC, or a chronic test that results in an IC25 < IWC. The IC25 refers to the Inhibition
Concentration 25, which shall be defined as a point estimate of the effluent concentration that
would cause a 25% reduction in a non-lethal biological measurement of the test organisms, such
as reproduction or growth.
The establishment of a WET limit versus WET monitoring shall be in accordance with 40 CFR
122.44(d), which is incorporated herein and adopted by reference. If chronic toxicity is
indicated, the permit shall limit toxicity by requiring the IC25 of the effluent to equal or exceed
the IWC. When acute toxicity is indicated, the toxicity limit will take the following form:
Effluent 48-hour LC50 > 3 * IWC (not to exceed 100%)

88

