(10)

"Bulk storage" means storage of petroleum products, materials and/or liquids with
chronic or acute potential for pollution impact on waters of the State at a facility
with an above ground storage capacity of more than 1320 gallons or any single
container with a capacity greater than 660 gallons.

(11)

"Calibrated and/or verified models" are models whose reaction rates and inputs
are significantly based on actual measurements using data from surveys on the
receiving water body. Verified models are calibrated to one set of field data and
confirmed by comparison to at least one additional set of field data taken under
different physical circumstances.

(12)

"Certificate of Coverage" A document issued by the Permit Board or its designee
granting coverage under an existing general permit.

(13)

"Code" or "Miss. Code Ann." means the Mississippi Code of 1972.

(14)

"Commission" means the Mississippi Commission on Environmental Quality.

(15)

"Daily discharge" means the "discharge of a pollutant" measured during a
calendar day or any 24-hour period that reasonably represents the calendar day for
purposes of sampling. For pollutants with limitations expressed in units of mass,
the "daily discharge" is calculated as the total mass of the pollutant discharged
over the day. For pollutants with limitations expressed in other units of
measurement, the "daily average" is calculated as the average measurement of the
discharge of the pollutant over the day.

(16)

"Daily maximum" means the highest "daily discharge" over a calendar month.

(17)

"Department" means the Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality.

(18)

"Dystrophic waters" means receiving water bodies whose natural background
conditions do not meet one or more of the State's water quality criteria.

(19)

"Effluent standards and limitations" means all State or Federal effluent standards
and limitations on quantities, rates, and concentrations of chemical, physical,
biological and other constituents to which a waste or wastewater discharge may
be subject under the Federal Act or the State law, including but not limited to,
effluent limitations, standards of performance, toxic effluent standards and
prohibitions, pretreatment standards and schedules of compliance.

(20)

"Effluent channel" means a man-made discernible confined and discrete
conveyance which is used for transporting treated wastewater to a receiving
stream or other body of water; provided that such channel has characteristics as
follows:

9

