(3)

Procedures
Permittee must use the most current EPA accepted procedures.
references are specified in the bioassay language.

(4)

Procedural

Non-Compliance
A permitted facility shall be considered in non-compliance when it fails any
bioassay subject to a WET limit. Once a permittee fails a WET test, the permittee
shall conduct a second WET test. For chronic tests, the second Chronic WET test
must be completed within 30 days following completion of the failed test. For
acute tests, the second WET test must be completed within two weeks of the
completion of the failed test. Results must be submitted to the Department within
two weeks of test completion. If the permittee fails the second WET test, then the
permittee shall submit a preliminary Toxicity Reduction Evaluation Plan (TREP)
within 45 days, following completion of the follow-up test, the first step of which
shall be increased monitoring to determine the characteristics of the toxicity. If
the permittee passes the second WET test, the permittee shall conduct the next
WET test at the regularly scheduled frequency in the permit. Repeated failure of
the WET tests may result in the Permit Board increasing the frequency of WET
testing. The Commission will determine the appropriate enforcement response in
accordance with existing enforcement policy.

(5)

Quality Assurance/Quality Control
A permittee must submit with each WET test result a completed OPC NPDES
Whole Effluent Toxicity Testing Report form prescribed by the Commission
(included in Exhibit "D").

I.

Attaining Compliance with WQBELS.

Whenever a new WQBEL is imposed in a permit, the permittee shall have no more than three
years in which to achieve compliance with such limitations. A permittee may apply to the
Permit Board for a variance from the compliance schedule.
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.
Rule 1.2.7 Bibliography.
Exhibit "F" is attached hereto for reference only as a bibliography. The documents contained in
the bibliography are not incorporated by reference. The Department may utilize any document
duly promulgated through the Federal Administrative Procedures Act and any other document
which contains scientifically defensible procedures.
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.
95

