Possible sanctions for violations involving sexual assault, domestic violence, relationship violence, hazing, harassment, stalking or other violent crimes are:
  •   Issuing a No Contact letter;
  •   Campus restrictions (e. Recently, the United States Department of Education has emphasized that Title IX requires Universities to include sexual assaults, sexual harassment, sexual violence, and sexual misconduct involving members of the University Community under their investigative authority. Sexual Assault and Violence Intervention & Prevention Office (SAVIP)
  Sexual Assault and Violence Intervention & Prevention (SAVIP) is housed in Student Health Services and is located on the second floor of the Thomson Building. Office of Student Conduct and Academic Integrity
  The Office of Student Conduct and Academic Integrity (OSC) is a University department designed to promote individual student developmentandacampusclimateofcivilityandaccountability. No Contact Letters and Restraining Orders
  A No Contact Letter is an official University notice from the Office of Student Conduct and Academic Integrity (OSC) restricting two University students from initiating contact with each other. Definitions of Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, and Stalking
  To help you better understand the policies outlined in this report, terms used in University Policies on Sexual Assault and Interpersonal Violence are defined below. Sexual Assault, Relationship, and Dating Violence Programs
  The University of South Carolina prohibits dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking. Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Relationship Violence and Stalking
  All forms of assault, abuse, harassment and violence are not tolerated at the University of South Carolina. A major role of SAVIP is to provide 24/7 on-call services to assist students, faculty and staff in addition to prevention education to all students, faculty and staff on campus regarding sexual assault and all forms of interpersonal violence. •   Consent to engage in one form of sexual activity does not provide consent to engage in any other form of sexual activity. Its advocates offer support and services to students, faculty, and staff whoaresurvivors ofinterpersonal violence which includes sexual assault, attempted sexual assault, relationship/dating violence,domestic violence, stalking, and/or harassment. •   Consent to engage in sexual activity with one person does not give consent to engage in sexual activity with someone else. However, in some cases, the process starts when a student seeks help from University Health Services’ Sexual Assault and Violence Intervention & Prevention Office (SAVIP). SAVIP provides 24/7 confidential interpersonal violence advocacy for anyone on the UofSC-Columbia campus who is impacted by sexual harassment and assault, relationship violence (all forms of relationships), stalking and harassment. OSC may begin a student conduct investigation upon receiving information that a University student has violated the Code of Conduct. OSC will assess the Code of Conduct to determine which charges most closely meet the behaviors the student is accused of and offer the option of resolution through a conduct hearing or a Carolina Judicial Council hearing. One of the primary University support units dealing with all forms of interpersonal violence is Sexual Assault and Violence Intervention & Prevention (SAVIP).