of the effluent to safe 10 levels11. The first phase of the TREP will include increased monitoring
to characterize the toxicity of the effluent.

6.    If the IC25 of any test is less than the IWC%, then the effluent will be considered
unacceptably chronically toxic, and this will constitute a violation of Part I of this permit.

7.     In addition to the specific conditions of this permit, the permittee shall comply with all
applicable conditions of 40 CFR 122.7 and 40 CFR 122.61 (06-03-93).

II.     ACUTE BIOASSAY REQUIREMENTS

The Water Quality Standards of Mississippi require that all waters be free from substances in
concentrations or combinations which are harmful to humans, animals, or aquatic life (State of
Mississippi, Water Quality Criteria for Intrastate, Interstate and Coastal Waters (current edition).
In accordance with such requirements, the permittee is authorized to discharge from outfall(s)
only in accordance with the following conditions:

1.      The permittee shall submit any existing toxicity data for review by the Mississippi Office
of Pollution Control within 30 days of the effective date of this permit.

2.      The permittee shall perform static renewal (tests that exceed 48 hours shall be renewed),
definitive (a control and five effluent concentrations) toxicity tests at 25°C in accordance with
Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents to Freshwater and Marine Organisms,
Fourth Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027) or the most recent edition. Acute toxicity tests will be
conducted on 24-hour composite samples of effluent, and tests must be initiated within 36-hours
of completion of the sampling period.

(a)    If the Mississippi Office of Pollution Control determines the receiving stream is
freshwater, the permittee must use both the following test organisms and test durations:

        (1)     Pimephales promelas (< 24-hrs.of age) - 96 hour
        (2)     Ceriodaphnia dubia - 48 hour

(b)     If the Mississippi Office of Pollution Control determines the receiving stream is marine
or estuarine, the permittee must use both the following test organisms and test durations:

        (1)     Menidia beryllina - 96 hour
        (2)     Americamysis - 48 hour

(c)Dilution water used for these tests shall consist of reagent grade water, defined as distilled or
deionized water that does not contain substances which are toxic to the test organisms. For
freshwater tests, dilution water shall consist of reagent grade chemicals or mineral water
combined to make moderately hard dilution water according to Methods for Measuring the

10
 Safe levels will be determined by Title 11, Part 6, Chapter 2.
11
 In large rivers, lakes, and estuaries the permittee must provide a schematic map showing isopleths of waste
concentrations.

                                                   111
