                 ANTIDEGRADATION IMPLEMENTATION METHODS
                            Forms and Instructions
                              (January 28, 2010)

I.     Introduction

The Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) State of Mississippi Water
Quality Criteria for Intrastate, Interstate, and Coastal Waters (WPC-2) provides:

“Antidegradation: The policy inherent in the standards shall be to protect water quality existing
at the time these water quality standards were adopted and to upgrade or enhance water quality
within the State of Mississippi. Waters whose existing quality is better than the established
standards will be maintained at high quality unless the Commission finds, after full satisfaction
of the intergovernmental coordination and public participation provisions of the State's
continuing planning process, that allowing lower water quality is necessary to accommodate
important economic or social development in the area in which the waters are located. In no
event, however, may degradation of water quality interfere with or become injurious to existing
instream water uses. Further, in no case will water quality be degraded below (or above) the
base levels set forth in these standards for the protection of the beneficial uses described herein.
In addition, the State will assure that there shall be achieved the highest statutory and regulatory
requirements for all new and existing point sources and all cost-effective and reasonable best
management practices for nonpoint source control. Where the Commission determines that high
quality waters constitute an Outstanding National Resource, such as waters of National and State
Parks and Wildlife Refuges and waters of exceptional recreational or ecological significance,
that water quality shall be maintained and protected. For the purposes of this rule, existing uses
are defined as those uses actually attained in the water body on or after November 28, 1975,
whether or not they are included in the Water Quality Criteria."

Further, the federal antidegradation policy (40 CFR Section 131.12(a)(2)) provides:

"Where the quality of the waters exceed levels necessary to support propagation of fish,
shellfish, and wildlife, and recreation in and on the water, that quality shall be maintained and
protected, unless the State finds, after full satisfaction of the intergovernmental coordination and
public participation provisions of the State's continuing planning process, that allowing lower
water quality is necessary to accommodate important economic or social development in the area
in which the waters are located."

Each state or tribe is required to identify methods for implementation of its antidegradation
policy (40 CFR Section 131.12(a)):

"The State shall develop and adopt a statewide antidegradation policy and identify the methods
for implementing such policy pursuant to this subpart."

On June 25, 2008, the State of Mississippi's antidegradation policy was determined by the United
States Environmental Protection Agency, Region 4, to be consistent with the requirements of
federal regulations.



                                                120
