completion of the remaining sections of the Antidegradation Instruction Form for any proposed
NPDES permit application.

Alternatives Analysis

An analysis of alternatives is required to ensure that the applicant has considered alternatives that
would reduce impacts to state surface waters. The analysis should include a description of each
alternative in terms of both technical and economic feasibility. Alternatives to be considered
should include (but are not limited to):

(1)    a centralized no discharge system;
(2)    connection to an existing wastewater treatment facility;
(3)    an alternative discharge point; and
(4)    product or raw material substitution.

Alternatives may also consider:
(5)     other treatment options which would reduce the predicted impact to the stream;
(6)     improved operation and maintenance of existing treatment operations;
(7)     seasonal or controlled discharge options to avoid critical conditions; and
(8)     pollution prevention, increased efficiency, water conservation, recycle or reuse
alternatives.

Socio-Economic Impacts Analysis

Socio-economic or environmental / public health issues may be considered as justifications for
lowering water quality. This analysis is not necessary if a non-degrading alternative is chosen
following the alternatives analysis.

Factors to be considered in making a determination include:

(1)    employment (increasing production and jobs, maintaining, or avoiding reduction in
employment);
(2)   improved community tax base; and
(3)   correction of an environmental or public health problem; and
(4)   providing a social benefit to the community.

The Interim Economic Guidance for Water Quality Standards Workbook, published by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, March 1995, may be used as a guide in preparing this
analysis.

Public Review / Input

Prior to issuance of an individual NPDES permit, the proposed permit is sent to public notice in
accordance with the Environmental Permits Division’s administrative procedures. The NPDES
permit public notice will state that an antidegradation report has been prepared for the project
and is available for public inspection. All applications for coverage under a general permit will



                                                124
