       mean for fecal coliform bacteria, the value one (1) shall be substituted for sample
       results of zero.

(45)   "NPDES form" means any issued permit or any uniform national form prescribed
       for use by the Commission in the NPDES Program and prescribed in regulations
       promulgated by the Administrator of EPA, including an NPDES application and a
       reporting form.

(46)   "NPDES permit" means an individual or general permit issued by the Permit
       Board pursuant to regulations adopted by the Commission and/or Permit Board
       under Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-17-17 and 49-17-29 for discharges into State
       waters.

(47)   "Natural background" means the condition of waters in the absence of man-
       induced alterations based on the best scientific information available to the
       Department. The establishment of natural background for an altered water body
       may be based upon a similar unaltered water body or on historical pre-alteration
       data.

(48)   "Non-compliance list" means a list of dischargers, prepared by the Executive
       Director pursuant to this regulation and the guidelines for transmittal to the
       Regional Administrator (or his/her designee), who fail or refuse to comply with a
       condition in an NPDES, Pretreatment or UIC permit issued pursuant to State law.

(49)   "Notice of Intent (NOI) form" means a form used to request coverage under an
       issued NPDES general permit or an issued State general permit.

(50)   "NPDES general permit" means an NPDES permit written to cover a specified
       category of similar discharges within a specified geographical or political
       boundary as described in 40 CFR 122.28(a).

(51)   "Office Head" means the Head of the Office of Pollution Control of the
       Department of Environmental Quality.

(52)   "Permit Board" means the Permit Board of the Department of Environmental
       Quality established pursuant to Miss. Code Ann. § 49-17-28.

(53)   "Pass Through" means a discharge which exits a publicly owned treatment works
       ("POTW") into waters of the State in quantities or concentrations which, alone or
       in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, causes a
       violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit (including an increase
       in the magnitude or duration of a violation) and/or causes a violation of Water
       Quality Standards.

(54)   "Person" means the State or other agency or institution thereof, any municipality,
       county, political subdivision, public or private corporation, individual,

                                       13
