       partnership, association, or other entity, and includes any officer or governing or
       managing body of any municipality, county, political subdivision, public or
       private corporation, or the United States or any officer or employee thereof.

(55)   "Pollution" means such contamination, or other alteration of the physical,
       chemical, or biological properties, of any waters of the State, including change in
       temperature, taste, color, turbidity, or odor of the waters, or such discharge of any
       liquid, gaseous, solid, radioactive, or other substance or leak into any waters of
       the State, unless in compliance with a valid permit issued by the Permit Board.

(56)   "POTW" means a publicly owned treatment works.

(57)   "Pretreatment New Source" The definition of "new source" set forth in 40
       CFR 403.3(k) is incorporated herein and adopted by reference.

(58)   "Primary industrial facility" means any industry category listed in the NRDC
       settlement agreement (Natural Resources Defense Council et. al. v. Train, 8
       E.R.C. 2120 (D.D.C. 1976), modified 12 E.R.C. 1833 (D.D.C. 1979)); also listed
       in appendix A of 40 CFR 122, which is incorporated herein and adopted by
       reference.

(59)   "Pretreatment system" means any process used to reduce the amount of pollutants
       in wastewater before discharging the wastewater into a publicly owned treatment
       works or privately owned treatment works treating non-domestic wastewater.

(60)   "Publicly Owned Treatment Works" is a waste treatment facility owned and/or
       operated by a public body or a privately owned treatment works which accepts
       discharges which would otherwise be subject to Federal Pretreatment
       Requirements.

(61)   "Quarterly average" means the average of "daily discharges" over a three-month
       period, calculated as the sum of all "daily discharges" measured during the quarter
       divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured during the quarter. The
       quarterly average for fecal coliform bacteria is the geometric mean of "daily
       discharges" measured during the quarter. In computing the geometric mean for
       fecal coliform bacteria, the value one (1) shall be substituted for sample results of
       zero.

(62)   "Quarterly maximum" means the highest "daily discharge" measured over a three-
       month period.

(63)   "Reporting form" means the uniform NPDES or UIC reporting form, including
       subsequent additions, revisions or modifications thereof, promulgated by the
       Administrator of EPA and prescribed by the Commission for use in administering
       these regulations, or a State form prescribed by the Commission for use in



                                        14
