       (7)    Any certification issued shall set forth limitations, conditions, and/or monitoring
              requirements necessary to assure (a) maintenance of classified or existing water
              uses and standards and (b) compliance with other requirements of these
              regulations or other appropriate requirements of State law and/or regulations.
              Monitoring requirements may include, but are not limited to, chemical analysis of
              water, sediment or fill material, and bioassays to determine potential water quality
              impacts of dredged material in accordance with EPA approved methods and/or
              the methods set forth in this Chapter.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.3.2 Applications.

A.     The application for certification shall be the public notice issued by the Federal
       permitting or licensing agency. The date of receipt of the public notice will be
       considered the date of application for certification if the application is deemed complete
       by the Department. To be deemed complete by the Department, all applications for
       certification shall at a minimum contain the information that follows:

       (1)    the name, address, phone numbers, principal place of business of the applicant
              and, if applicable, the name and address of the agent for the applicant;

       (2)    a complete description of the proposed activity, including the location, adjacent
              water body(s), purpose and intent of the project, maps, drawings, and plans
              (detailed engineering plans and specifications are not required);

       (3)    a description of all proposed discharges and/or other activities associated with the
              proposed activity, including planned or proposed future development by the
              applicant;

       (4)    a description of the composition, source, and quantity of any material to be
              dredged or used as fill and a description of the area to be impacted;

       (5)    the method of dredging or filling and specific plans for disposal and control of
              dredge spoils; and

       (6)    the names and addresses of adjacent property owners.

              Potential applicants are encouraged to contact the Department prior to submitting
              an application.

B.     The Department may require the applicant to provide water quality monitoring data,
       water quality modeling results, or other information necessary to complete the
       certification review.


                                              141
