     (4)    The proposed activity adversely impacts a special or unique aquatic habitat, such
            as National or State Wild and Scenic Rivers and/or State Outstanding Resource
            Waters.

     (5)    The proposed activity in conjunction with other activities may result in adverse
            cumulative impacts.

     (6)    Nonpoint source/storm water management practices necessary to protect water
            quality have not been proposed.

     (7)    Denial of wastewater permits and/or approvals by the State with regard to the
            proposed activities.

     (8)    The proposed activity results in significant environmental impacts which may
            adversely impact water quality.

C.   Criteria. The Department has developed a number of criteria which the applicant must
     substantially satisfy when the proposed activity involves any of the items addressed
     below.

     (1)    Excavated Canals. These canals generally have flow and circulation less than that
            of the parent body of water and can become traps for organic material, nutrients
            and pollutants, resulting in a decline in water quality. Due to this potential for
            water quality degradation, the Department discourages canals. If no feasible
            alternatives are available, the Department has formulated a set of design and
            construction criteria to minimize the anticipated adverse water quality impacts.
            These criteria must be substantially satisfied in order for certification issuance to
            be considered. The criteria with regard to canals is attached hereto as Exhibit A
            and incorporated herein by reference.

     (2)    Marinas. Numerous construction, development and operation activities at a
            marina can adversely impact water quality. In order to prevent potential adverse
            water quality impacts, the Department has formulated a set of criteria for marina
            development. These criteria must be substantially satisfied in order for
            certification issuance to be considered. The criteria with regard to marinas is
            attached hereto as Exhibit B and incorporated herein by reference.

     (3)    Sand and Gravel Mining Within or Adjacent to Streams. Potential physical
            effects of excavations adjacent to streams and sand/gravel mining within stream
            banks include, but are not limited to, stream channel modifications, such as
            alteration of flow patterns, sediment transport, increased headcutting and
            channelization. These effects may adversely impact water quality by causing
            increased turbidity, reduced light penetration, resuspension of pollutants,
            increased water temperatures, and decreased dissolved oxygen. All sand and
            gravel mining activities which require a Section 401 Water Quality Certification

                                            144
