     Samples shall be analyzed in accordance with methodology specified in 40 CFR 136 and
     with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
     Wastewater or other methods acceptable to the Commission.

C.   Designated Use Attainability: Certain waters of the State may not fall within desired or
     prescribed limitations as outlined. In such instances the Commission may authorize
     exceptions to these limits, under the following conditions:

     (1)    the designated use is not attainable because of natural background conditions; or

     (2)    the designated use is not attainable because of irretrievable man-induced
     conditions; or

     (3)      the application of effluent limitations for existing point sources is more stringent
     than those required pursuant to Section 301(b)(2)(A) and (B) of the Federal Water
     Pollution Control Act of 1972, as amended, in order to attain the designated use, would
     result in substantial and widespread adverse economic and social impact.

     In no case shall it be permissible to deposit or introduce materials into waters of the State
     that will cause impairment of the reasonable or legitimate use of said waters.

D.   Natural Conditions: Natural conditions are defined as background water quality
     conditions due only to non-anthropogenic sources. The criteria herein apply specifically
     with regard to substances attributed to sources (discharges, nonpoint sources, or instream
     activities) as opposed to natural phenomena. Waters may naturally have characteristics
     outside the limits established by these criteria. Therefore, naturally occurring conditions
     that fail to meet criteria should not be interpreted as violations of these criteria.

E.   Criteria: In view of the fact that industry is continuing to produce new materials whose
     characteristics and effects are unknown at this time or for which incomplete national
     criteria have been established, for the purposes of setting water quality standards or
     permit limits on a case-by-case basis, such materials shall be evaluated on their merits as
     information becomes available to the Commission. Sources of information shall include,
     but not be limited to, the latest edition of Quality Criteria for Water, prepared by the
     Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to Section 304(a) of the Federal Clean Water
     Act.

F.   Applicable Flow: All criteria contained herein shall apply to all stages of stream flow
     greater than or equal to the 7-day, 10-year minimum flow (7Q10) in unregulated, natural
     streams, and the legally guaranteed minimum flow in regulated streams, unless otherwise
     provided in these regulations. This requirement shall not be interpreted to permit any
     unusual waste discharges during periods of lower flow. Notwithstanding the above, a
     stream flow equal to the 7-day, 2-year minimum flow (7Q2) in unregulated natural
     streams shall be utilized in establishing permit limitations for storm water permits. In
     cases in which either (1) the data are indefinite or inconclusive, or (2) the 7-day, 2-year

                                             159
