        access bathing beaches along the shoreline of Jackson, Harrison, and Hancock Counties
        when enterococci exceed 104 colonies per 100 ml. When enterococci counts         exceed
        104 per 100 ml at the public access beaches, water contact advisories are issued by
        Mississippi’s Beach Monitoring Task Force.

J.      Definitions:

     (1) Acute criterion or Criteria Maximum Concentration (CMC) is the highest concentration
         of a pollutant to which aquatic life can be exposed for a short period of time (1-hour
         average) without deleterious effects. (40 CFR 131.36)

     (2) Best management practice (BMP) means a structural or nonstructural management-based
         practice used singularly or in combination to reduce nonpoint source inputs to receiving
         waters in order to achieve water quality protection goals.

     (3) Bioconcentration Factor (BCF) is defined as the ratio (in L/kg-tissue) of the concentration
         of a substance in tissue of an aquatic organism to its concentration in the ambient water,
         in situations where the organism is exposed through the water only and the ratio does not
         change substantially over time. (EPA-822-B-00-004)

     (4) Biological integrity is defined as the ability of a system to support and maintain a
         balanced, integrated, and adaptive community of organisms having a composition,
         diversity, and functional organization comparable to that of natural habitats of the region.

     (5) Cancer Potency Factor (CPF) is a measure of the cancer-causing potency of a substance
         estimated by the upper 95 percent confidence limit of the slope of a straight line
         calculated by the Linearized Multistage Model according to the U.S. Environmental
         Protection Agency Guidelines (FR 51(185): 339992-34003, and FR 45(231 Part V);
         79318-79379).

     (6) Chronic Criterion or Criteria Continuous Concentration (CCC) is the highest
         concentration of a pollutant to which aquatic life can be exposed for an extended period
         of time (4 days) without deleterious effects. (40 CFR 131.36)

     (7) Clean techniques refers to an integrated system of sample collection and laboratory
         analytical procedures designed to detect concentrations of trace metals below criteria
         levels and eliminate or minimize inadvertent sample contamination that can occur during
         traditional sampling practices.

     (8) Composite sampling is a technique whereby multiple temporally or spatially discrete
         media or tissue samples are combined, thoroughly homogenized, and treated as a single
         sample.




                                                 161
