E.   Temperature: The maximum water temperature increase above natural temperatures shall
     not exceed 5°F (2.8°C) in streams, lakes, and reservoirs nor shall he maximum water
     temperature exceed 90F (32.2C), except that in the Tennessee River the temperature
     shall not exceed 86F (30C). In lakes and reservoirs, there shall be no withdrawals
     from or discharge of heated waters to the hypolimnion unless it can be shown that such
     discharge will be beneficial to water quality.

     In all waters the normal daily and seasonal temperature variations that were present
     before the addition of artificial heat shall be maintained. The maximum water
     temperature shall not exceed 90F (32.2C) in coastal or estuarine waters. The discharge
     of any heated waste into any coastal or estuarine waters shall not raise temperatures more
     than 4F (2.2C) above natural background temperatures during the months of October
     through May nor more than 1.5F (0.8C) above natural background temperature during
     the months of June through September.

     There shall be no thermal block to the migration of aquatic organisms. Requirements for
     zones of passage as referenced in Rule 2.1.H. shall apply. The general requirements of
     Rule 2.1.B. state that samples should be taken from points so distributed over the seasons
     of the year, time of day, and area and depth of the waters being studies as to permit a
     realistic assessment of water quality. Therefore, the temperature shall be measured
     during the environmentally critical period. In addition, temperature shall be measured at
     a depth of 5 feet in waters 10 feet or greater in depth; and for those waters less than 10
     feet in depth, temperature criteria will be applied at mid-depth.

     In those specific cases where natural conditions elevate the temperatures in excess of the
     limits expressed herein, Rule 2.2.E. shall apply on a case-by-case basis. The discharge of
     any heated waters into a stream, lake, or reservoir shall not raise temperatures more than
     5°F(2.8°C) above natural condition temperatures. The discharge of any heated waste into
     any coastal or estuarine waters shall not raise temperatures more than 4F (2.2C) above
     natural condition temperatures during the months of October through May nor more than
     1.5F (0.8C) above natural condition temperatures during the months of June through
     September. This will also be considered on a case-by-case basis requiring evidence that
     the aquatic life of the water body will not be adversely impacted by the elevated
     temperatures.

F.   Toxic Substances:

     (1)    Aquatic Life and Human Health Standards

            (a)     Aquatic Life - The concentration of toxic substances in State waters shall
                    not result in chronic or acute toxicity or impairment of the uses of aquatic
                    life. Toxicity concentrations in State waters in excess of these values
                    shown in Table 2 will be assessed to determine chronic or acute toxicity,
                    and/or the impairment of the uses of aquatic life. Chronic and/or acute
                                            165
