             toxicity will be determined in accordance with the Water Quality
             Standards Handbook: Second Edition (EPA-823-B-94-005a, August
             1994) and Technical Support Document for Water Quality-Based Toxics
             Control (EPA-505/2-90-001, March 1991). Regardless of the results of
             chronic or acute toxicity bioassay surveys, the concentrations of toxic
             substances shall not exceed the chronic or acute values, except as provided
             for in Rules 2.2.F.5(a) and 2.2.F.5(b).

      (b)    Human Health - The concentration of toxic substances shall not exceed the
             level necessary to protect human health through exposure routes of fish
             (and shellfish) tissue consumption, water consumption, or other routes
             identified as appropriate for the water body.

(2)   Numeric criteria for all waters are established herein for certain toxic pollutants
      for which the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has published national
      criteria for the protection of aquatic life and human health pursuant to Section
      304(a) of the Federal Clean Water Act in addition to chlorine and ammonia. The
      pollutants are listed in Table 2 and are expressed as the dissolved phase of the
      parameter.

(3)   Ammonia toxicity shall be evaluated according to EPA guidelines published in
      1999 Update of Ambient Water Quality Criteria for Ammonia; EPA document
      number EPA-822-R-99-014 or Ambient Water Quality Criteria for Ammonia
      (Saltwater) - 1989; EPA document number 440/5-88-004. This material related to
      ammonia toxicity is hereby incorporated by reference including any subsequent
      amendments and editions.

(4)   Application of Numerical Criteria:

      (a)    When evaluating human health effects all waters must comply with the
             Organisms Only criteria except for waters classified as Public Water
             Supply and all stream segments within 50 stream miles upstream of a
             drinking water intake. Stream segments that are classified as Public Water
             Supply or are within 50 miles upstream of a drinking water intake shall
             comply with the Water and Organisms criteria.

      (b)    When applying acute or chronic toxicity or human health criteria the
             following stream flows shall be used:

             Acute Toxicity - 7Q10
             Chronic Toxicity - 7Q10
             Human Health - Mean Annual Flow

      (c)    Criteria for certain metals may be modified on a site-specific basis when a
             water effect ratio (WER) is conducted in accordance with Rule 2.6.C.2.a.

                                      166
