            (1)    The Commission may establish discharger specific criteria for new
                   source discharges if the discharger can demonstrate that
                   established Water Quality Criteria are based on conditions not
                   applicable to Mississippi such as, but not limited to, the use of
                   species not indigenous to Mississippi.

            (2)    All discharger specific alternative criteria will be subject to
                   Mississippi public participation requirements for revisions to water
                   quality standards and will be subject to review by the U. S.
                   Environmental Protection Agency.

(6)   Toxic and Human Health Parameters for which no Numeric Criteria have been
      Established:

      (a)   For those toxic and human health parameters for which no numeric criteria
            have been established, the Commission shall determine limitations using
            available references which shall include, but not be limited to, Quality
            Criteria for Water (Section 304(a)), Federal regulations under Section 307
            of the Clean Water Act, and Federal regulations under Section 1412 of the
            Public Health Service Act as amended by the Safe Drinking Act (Pub. 93-
            523).

      (b)   The not to be exceeded value for criteria published in 1980 or the one hour
            average value for criteria published in 1985 or later shall be used as an
            acute toxicity number for calculating effluent limitations, establishing
            Total Maximum Daily Loads (TMDLs), or reviewing ambient water
            quality data.

      (c)   The 24-hour average for criteria published in 1980 or the 4-day average
            for criteria published in 1985 or later shall be used as a chronic toxicity
            number for calculating effluent limitations, establishing TMDLs, or
            reviewing ambient water quality data.

      (d)   If metals concentrations for criteria are hardness-dependent, the chronic
            and acute concentrations shall be based on 25 mg/l hardness if the ambient
            hardness is less than or equal to 25 mg/l. Concentrations shall be based on
            the actual mixed stream hardness.

      (e)   If separate criteria are given for fresh and salt waters, they shall be applied
            as appropriate.

      (f)   For non-carcinogens, these concentrations will be determined using a
            Reference Dose (RfD) as published by the U. S. Environmental Protection
            Agency pursuant to Section 304(a) of the Federal Water Pollution Act as

                                     168
