     (1)    Bacteria: Culturable e.coli should not exceed a geometric mean of 126 per 100 ml
     over a 30-day period, nor should the samples examined during a 30-day period exceed 410
     per 100 ml more than 10% of the time. There should be a minimum of 5 samples taken over
     a 30-day period with no less than 12 hours between individual samples.



     (2)    Chlorides (Cl): There shall be no substances added which will cause the chloride
            content to exceed 230 mg/l in freshwater streams.

     (3)    Specific Conductance: There shall be no substances added to increase the
            conductivity above 500 micromhos/cm for freshwater streams.

     (4)    Dissolved Solids: There shall be no substances added to the waters that will cause
            the dissolved solids to exceed 500 mg/l for freshwater streams.

     (5)    Threshold Odor: There shall be no substances added which will cause the
            threshold odor number to exceed 24 (at 60C) as a daily average.

     (6)    Radioactive Substances: There shall be no radioactive substances added to the
            waters which will cause the gross beta activity (in the known absence of
            Strontium-90 and alpha emitters) to exceed 1000 picocuries per liter at any time.

     (7)    Specific Chemical Constituents: In addition to the provisions in Section II.4. and
            10., the following concentrations (dissolved) shall not be exceeded at any time:

                    Constituent                            Concentration (mg/l)
                    Barium                                       2.0
                    Fluoride                                     2.0
                    Lead                                         0.015
                    Nitrate (as N)                              10.0

B.   SHELLFISH HARVESTING CLASSIFICATION

     Waters in this classification are for propagation and harvesting shellfish for sale or use as a
     food product. These waters shall meet the requirements set forth in the latest edition of the
     National Shellfish Sanitation Program, Manual of Operations, Part I, Sanitation of
     Shellfish Growing Areas, as published by the U. S. Public Health Service. Waters that meet
     the Shellfish Harvesting Area Criteria shall also be suitable for recreational purposes. In
     considering the acceptability of a proposed site for disposal of bacteria latent wastewater in
     or near waters with this classification, the Permit Board shall consider the relative
     proximity of the discharge to shellfish harvesting beds.

     (1)    Bacteria: The median fecal coliform MPN (Most Probable Number) of the water
            shall not exceed 14 per 100 ml, and not more than 10% of the samples shall
            ordinarily exceed an MPN of 43 per 100 ml in those portions or areas most
            probably exposed to fecal contamination during most unfavorable hydrographic
            and pollutive conditions.
                                              176
