B.   Applicability and Required Permits

     (1)   Proposed discharges and/or proposed discharges into POTWs and/or proposed
           facilities from which no discharge occurs.

           Any person proposing a discharge of wastes to waters of the State or proposing a
           treatment works from which no discharge of wastes is designed to occur shall file
           an application in the case of an individual NPDES, UIC, or State permit, at least
           180 days prior to the commencement of the activity or, in the case of NOI for
           coverage under an issued NPDES general permit or coverage under an issued
           State general permit, in accordance with a schedule established in such permit.
           For purposes of NPDES permits (with the exception of Storm Water permits),
           commencement of activity means commencement of discharge. For purposes of
           Storm Water NPDES individual or general permits, State permits or UIC permits,
           commencement of activity means commencement of construction.

     (2)   Existing discharges and/or existing facilities from which no discharge occurs.

           (a)    Any person discharging into waters of the State or to any publicly owned
                  treatment works or operating a treatment works from which no discharge
                  occurs, shall promptly make application for and obtain from the Permit
                  Board a valid NPDES, UIC, or State permit according to procedures and
                  deadlines set forth in these regulations.

           (b)
                  (1)     Any person discharging wastes into surface waters of the State
                          shall apply to the Permit Board for an NPDES permit, or for
                          coverage under an NPDES general permit.

                  (2)     Any person discharging wastes or other fluids into underground
                          waters of the State through the use of an injection well shall apply
                          to the Permit Board for a UIC permit, unless otherwise exempted
                          under Rule 1.1.B.

                  (3)     Any person operating a treatment works from which no discharge
                          of wastes occurs shall apply to the Permit Board for a State permit
                          or for coverage under a State general permit.

                  (4)     Any person discharging wastes into a publicly owned treatment
                          works and which is subject to Federal pretreatment standards (40
                          CFR 403), or which, in the opinion of the Permit Board, would
                          cause interference with the proper operation of the publicly owned
                          treatment works, cause violations of water quality standards by
                          passing through the publicly owned treatment works, or cause
                          contamination of sludge which would limit or prevent the proper

                                           18
