E.     These regulations do not pertain to a wastewater treatment facility treating wastewater
       generated solely by an industry and owned and operated by said industry.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 21-27-201, et seq., 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 3.2 Definitions.

A.     "Association" means the Mississippi Water and Pollution Control Operator's Association.

B.     "Certificate," the certification of competency issued by the Department stating that the
       operator has met the requirements for the specified operator classification.

C.     "Commission," the Mississippi Commission on Environmental Quality.

D.     "Community water system" means any water system serving piped water for human
       consumption to fifteen (15) or more individual service connections used year-round by
       consumers or regularly serving twenty-five (25) or more individual consumers year-
       round, including, but not by way of limitation, any collection, pretreatment, treatment,
       storage and/or distribution facilities or equipment used primarily as part of, or in
       connection with, such system, regardless of whether or not such components are under
       the ownership or control of the operator of such system.

E.     "Department," the Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality.

F.     "Experience," means direct observation of and/or participation in the operation and
       maintenance of a wastewater facility, including, but not limited to, process control
       activities, facility maintenance, record keeping and NPDES monitoring activities.
       Experience requirements must be in accordance with the facility minimum visitation
       schedule as outlined in Section 5, Operator Responsibilities.

G.     "Operator," the person who directly supervises and is personally responsible for the daily
       operation and maintenance of a wastewater facility, community water system or
       commercial nonhazardous solid waste management landfill.

H.     "Person," the state or other agency or institution thereof, any municipality, political
       subdivision, public or private corporation, individual, partnership, association or other
       entity, and includes any officer or governing or managing body of any municipality,
       political subdivision, or public or private corporation, or the United States or any officer
       or employee thereof.

I.     "Pollution," the contamination or other alteration of the physical, chemical or biological
       properties of any waters of the state, including change in temperature, taste, color,
       turbidity, or odor of the waters, or the discharge of any liquid, gaseous, solid, radioactive
       or other substance or heat into any waters of the State.

J.     "Professional Reference," a certified operator (other than a relative or a subordinate) who
       is familiar with the applicant's experience working in a wastewater facility.

                                               199
