             waters, by unreasonably degrading the same, or will adversely affect
             public health, welfare or the environment. In making this determination,
             the Permit Board shall consider the actual use and environs of the
             receiving waters as well as the effect, if any, of the proposed discharge of
             effluent upon the actual water quality of the receiving waters.

      (f)    No permit application will be processed unless the applicant controls the
             real property upon which the facility is located. The applicant may
             demonstrate control through ownership, lease, eminent domain, easement,
             license, and/or contract.

      (g)    It is the responsibility of the applicant/permittee to obtain all other
             approvals, permits, clearances, easements and/or agreements, for the
             construction and operation of the facility, which may be required.

      (h)    The Permit Board, at its discretion, may require that all environmental
             permits, and all permit modifications which require public notice, be
             prepared for a common public notice and that no permit and/or permit
             modification will be acted on individually.

(2)   Siting Criteria

      Unless otherwise provided in these regulations or in a general permit, no permit
      for a new waste treatment facility, or an expansion to an existing facility, will be
      issued unless the facility can comply with the following buffer zone requirements.
      A facility which has previously satisfied buffer zone requirements shall not be
      required to reestablish compliance with those requirements at the reissuance,
      modification or transference of the permit or at reconstruction/replacement of the
      facility, unless the facility proposes expansion.

      (a)    The treatment works, unless addressed otherwise in this regulation, must
             be at least 150 feet from property not owned and/or controlled by the
             applicant except when the property is zoned for commercial or industrial
             use, or when the property, dwelling, or commercial establishment is used
             for commercial or industrial use. The Permit Board may exclude from
             these requirements treatment units for short-term remediation.

      (b)    Domestic wastewater treatment facilities of 1500 gallons per day (gpd) or
             less must be installed at least ten (10) feet from adjoining property lines.
             The Permit Board, at its discretion, may require a buffer zone of greater
             than 10 feet depending upon the type of treatment and site specific
             information.

      (c)    Any facility for the treatment or disposal of animal wastes or the housing
             of a concentrated and confined animal growing operation (excluding any
             facility for the housing of broiler pullets, broiler breeders and broilers in a

                                       20
