            notified in writing by the Department that the application is incomplete. The
            Commission shall make determinations regarding issuance or denial of the
            certificate based upon the information contained in the application, the
            applicant's actions during any prior term of certification, and any other
            pertinent information that is available to the Commission.

E.   Examinations

     (1)    The Department shall prepare written examinations to be used in
            determining knowledge, ability, and judgment of the operators.

     (2)    Examinations shall be held at places and times set by the Department.

     (3)    A fee, to be set by the Commission, will be charged for the examination.

     (4)    An individual who passes an examination must be certified within three
            years following the date the examination was taken. Otherwise, the
            individual will be required to take another written examination in order to be
            certified.

     (5)    An individual who fails to pass an examination may repeat the examination
            at the next regularly scheduled examination.

     (6)    Examination papers will not be returned to the operator.

     (7)    An individual who fails to pass an examination may review his paper by
            submitting a written request to the Department within thirty (30) days
            following notification of the examination grade.

     (8)    To be eligible to take a written examination, an individual must demonstrate
            to the Department that he/she has attended a Department sponsored
            wastewater operator short course for the appropriate classification or other
            equivalent Department approved course at DEQ’s discretion within the
            previous 12 months.

F.   Reciprocity

     (1)   Certificates may be issued, without examination, in a comparable classification to
           an operator who holds a valid certification by exam from any state, territory, or
           possession of the United States that has entered into a reciprocity agreement with
           the Department.

     (2)   Applicants for certification through reciprocity must meet the education and
           experience requirements for the class certificate requested as previously
           described.

G.   Certification Fees

                                           204
