       (1)    A fee to be set by the Commission shall be charged for certification
              and renewal in any classification and must accompany the application
              for certification or renewal.

       (2)    Fees from applicants who are not certified will be returned.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 21-27-201, et seq., 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et
seq.

Rule 3.5 Operator Responsibilities.

A.     Certified operators in charge of wastewater facilities must personally visit said
       facilities at a sufficient frequency and duration to perform such tasks as may be
       required by the permit and to ensure proper operation and management of said
       wastewater facilities. Unless otherwise stated in the facility's permit or an order of the
       Commission, certified operators in charge of wastewater facilities shall visit the
       facilities, as a minimum, according to the following schedule:

              Class I Facility               One (1) day per week
              Class II Facility              Two (2) days per
              week Class III Facility        Three (3) days per
              week Class IV Facility         Five (5) days per
              week

B.     Certified operators in charge of wastewater facilities shall be thoroughly familiar with
       all monitoring and reporting requirements mandated by the facility's permit and shall
       ensure said facility complies with these requirements.

C.     Certified operators in charge of wastewater facilities must maintain
       written documentation of each facility visit. Documentation of facility visits shall be
       made available to the Department upon request.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 21-27-201, et seq., 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et
seq.

Rule 3.6 Renewal of Certificates

A.     Subject to the provisions of Rule 3.5.B., certificates may be renewed without
       examination, however, in order to be eligible for certificate renewal, a
       certification renewal application should be filed prior to the expiration of the
       existing certificate. The application must be accompanied by the renewal fee and
       also proof of completing the continuing education requirements found in the
       below paragraph C. Additionally, an operator, if practicing, must have
       demonstrated competency. Certified operators who file renewal applications
       more than sixty (60) days after the expiration of their certificate will be required
       to pass the written exam in order to be eligible for certification.


                                              205
