B.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Rule 3.5.A., any wastewater facility operator
     who holds a restricted certificate (i.e., valid only for a particular facility and/or
     class of facilities) may obtain a renewal certificate with identical restrictions
     provided that all conditions of paragraph A. are satisfied.

C.   Continuing education

     (1)     Operators must receive thirty six (36) hours of related continuing
             education during the three (3) year period for which their certification
             is valid. A minimum of eighteen (18) of this thirty six (36) hours must
             be satisfied by attending Department sponsored training.

     (2)     Certified collection system operators must receive eighteen (18) hours of
             related continuing education during the three (3) year period that their
             certification is valid.

     (3)     Operators who have been certified for three (3) consecutive three (3) year
             periods, must receive twenty four (24) hours of continuing education during the
             fourth and subsequent three (3) year periods for which their certificate is valid.
             A minimum of twelve (12) hours must be satisfied by attending Department
             sponsored training, or Association sponsored Short Courses.

     (4)     Exceptions to the twenty four (24) hours of Department sponsored training
             requirement may be considered by the Department in individual cases, such
             as operators who possess valid Mississippi Certificates and are employed and
             reside outside the state of Mississippi, provided they submit proof of
             attendance of equivalent training.

     (5)     Continuing education credit will be given as follows:

             (a)     Attending one (1) day of Department sponsored training will be
                     equivalent to six (6) hours of continuing education.

             (b)     Attending one (1) Association sponsored week long wastewater
                     treatment short course will be equivalent to thirty two (32) hours of
                     Department sponsored continuing education.

             (c)     Association sponsored wastewater continuing education short courses
                     will be evaluated, upon request, based on technical content, and
                     Department sponsored continuing education credit will be awarded for
                     actual hours attended.
             (d)     Certified Operators who serve as instructors/presenters at
                     Association sponsored training sessions shall receive two (2) hours
                     of continuing education for each hour of actual presentation time.

             (e)     Attending one (1) Association monthly District meeting will be
                     equivalent of to one (1) hour of continuing education. Association

                                             206
