                      District meetings and/or training sessions held other than on a monthly
                      basis, will be evaluated, upon request, based on technical content, and
                      continuing education credit will be awarded for actual hours attended.

              (f)     Association annual conferences will be evaluated, upon request, based
                      on technical content, and Department sponsored continuing education
                      credit will be awarded for actual hours attended.

              (g)     Organizations that provide technical training, including, but not limited
                      to, the Mississippi Water Environment Association and the Mississippi
                      Rural Water Association may request Department approval of training
                      for continuing education credit. The Department shall consider requests
                      for Department sponsored continuing education credit for training in
                      which
                      the Department staff actively participate in the continuing
                      education curriculum development, presentation and evaluation.

              (h)     Special schools, experience, training, correspondence courses, and/or
                      other education and/or experiences may be approved at the discretion
                      of the Department.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 21-27-201, et seq., 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et
seq.

Rule 3.7 Revocation or Suspension of Certificates.

A.     The Commission may revoke or suspend the certificate of an operator, following
       a hearing before the Commission, when it is found that the operator:

       (1)    has practiced fraud or deception,

       (2)    fails to use reasonable care, judgment, and/or apply knowledge in
              the performance of duties,

       (3)    is incompetent or unable to properly perform duties,

       (4)    knowingly submits false or inaccurate information for issuance or renewal of
              a certificate under these regulations,

       (5)    willfully fails to comply with the conditions of the certificate issued by the
              Commission, or

        (6)   violates any provision of these regulations, the Municipal and Domestic Water
              and Wastewater System and Nonhazardous Solid Waste Management Facilities
              Operator's Certification Act of 1992, or any applicable Rule, regulation or
              written order of the Commission.

                                              207
