(30)   Inflow - Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including sewer
       service connections) as a result of rainfall or rainfall induced soil moisture from
       sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar drains, yard drains, area
       drains, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections
       between storm sewers and sanitary sewers, catch basins, cooling towers, storm
       waters, surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage. Inflow does not include,
       and is distinguished from, infiltration.

(31)   Innovative Technology - Developed wastewater treatment processes and
       techniques which have not been fully proven under the circumstances of their
       contemplated use and which represent a significant advancement over the state of
       the art in terms of significant reduction in life cycle cost or significant
       environmental benefits through the reclaiming and reuse of water, otherwise
       eliminating the discharge of pollutants, utilizing recycling techniques such as land
       treatment, more efficient use of energy and resources, improved or new methods
       of waste treatment management for combined municipal and industrial systems,
       or the confined disposal of pollutants so that they will not migrate to cause water
       or other environmental pollution.

(32)   Intended Use Plan - A plan identifying the intended uses of the amount of funds
       available in the SRF for each fiscal year as described in Section 606(c) of the Act.

(33)   Interceptor Sewer - A sewer which is designed for one or more of the following
       purposes:

       (a)    To intercept wastewater from a final point in an existing or proposed
              collector sewer and convey such wastes directly to a treatment facility or
              another interceptor or pump station.

       (b)    To replace an existing wastewater treatment facility and transport the
              wastes to an adjoining collector sewer or interceptor sewer for conveyance
              to a treatment plant.

       (c)    To transport wastewater from one or more municipal collector sewers to
              another municipality or to a regional facility for treatment.

       (d)    To intercept an existing discharge of raw or inadequately treated
              wastewater for transport directly to another interceptor, pump station or to
              a treatment plant.

(34)   Nonpoint Source Pollution Plan - A plan for managing nonpoint source pollution
       as described in Section 319 of the Act.

(35)   Permit, Waste Discharge Permit - The authority granted by the Mississippi
       Environmental Quality Permit Board to discharge treated wastewater into or
       adjacent to waters of the state.


                                       213
