       (47)   SRF - The State Revolving Fund.

       (48)   Treatment Works - Any devices and systems which are used in the storage,
              treatment, recycling, and reclamation of waste or which are necessary to recycle
              or reuse water at the most economical cost over the estimated life of the works,
              including intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection systems,
              pumping, power, and other equipment and their appurtenances; extensions,
              improvements, remodeling, additions, and alterations thereof; elements essential
              to provide a reliable recycled supply such as standby treatment units and clear
              well facilities; and any works, including site acquisition of the land that will be an
              integral part of, or used in connection with, the treatment process (including land
              used for the storage of treated water in land treatment systems prior to land
              application) or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such
              treatment; and any plant, disposal field, lagoon, canal, incinerator or other
              facilities installed for the purpose of treating, neutralizing or stabilizing
              wastewater or nonpoint source pollution or facilities to provide for the collection,
              control and disposal of wastewater or nonpoint source pollution.

       (49)   Value Engineering - A specialized cost control technique which uses a systematic
              and creative approach to identify and focus on unnecessarily high cost in a project
              in order to arrive at a cost saving without sacrificing the purpose, reliability or
              efficiency of the project.

       (50)   Water Quality Management Plan - A plan prepared and updated annually by the
              State and approved by the Environmental Protection Agency which determines
              the nature, extent, and cause of water quality problems in various areas of the
              State and identifies cost-effective and locally acceptable facility and nonpoint
              measures to meet and maintain water quality standards.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-17-61 through 49-17-70, 49-17-81 through 89, 49-2-1, et seq.
and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 4.2 Program Requirements

A.     Eligible Applicant Determination. To be eligible for financial assistance, an applicant
       must meet the definition of an eligible applicant as described in Rule 4.1.C.(17) of this
       regulation, as determined by the Department.

B.     Obligation Period. Federal funds allotted to the State shall be available for obligation for
       a period of one year after the close of the federal fiscal year for which the funds are
       authorized.

C.     Reserves. The Commission shall reserve a percentage of the State's Title VI SRF
       allotment from each fiscal year for administration of the fund and for planning under
       Sections 205(j) and 303(e) of the Act, consistent with the Act and state law.


                                               215
