D.   Public Comment and Review. In accordance with the Act, the Commission shall provide
     for public comment and review to consider adoption of the annual intended use plan, the
     priority list, and the priority system. After adoption by the Commission, modifications to
     these documents may be adopted by the Commission as provided for in the Intended Use
     Plan without further public comment and review.

E.   Types of Assistance. The fund may be used for the following purposes, subject to that
     established in the Intended Use Plan for a given fiscal year.

     (1)    To make loans on the condition that:

            (a)     Such loans are made at or below market interest rates, at terms not to
                    exceed 20 years.

            (b)     Monthly principal and interest payments will commence as further
                    described in Rule 4.3.H. of this regulation, and all loans will be fully
                    amortized not later than 20 years after project completion.

            (c)     The recipient of a loan will establish a dedicated source of revenue for
                    repayment of loans.

            (d)     The fund will be credited with all payments of principal and interest on all
                    loans.

     (2)    To refinance the debt obligation of eligible applicants at or below market rates
            when such debt obligations were incurred and construction began on or after
            March 7, 1985; and where such projects have complied with all applicable Title II
            requirements of the Act, crosscutting federal laws and executive orders, and this
            regulation. The prospective loan recipient agrees that by pursuing such a
            refinancing arrangement, he does so at his own risk, and thereby relieves the
            Commission, the Department, and the Department staff of all responsibility and
            liability should costs later be determined unallowable for any reason or should
            such funding not become available for any reason.

     (3)    As a source of revenue or security for the payment of principal and interest on
            revenue or general obligation bonds issued by the state if the proceeds of the sale
            of such bonds will be deposited in the fund, and provided such authority is
            established in state law.

     (4)    For the reasonable costs of administering the fund and conducting activities under
            Title VI of the Act.

     (5)    To earn interest on fund accounts.

F.   State Capitalization Grant Application. After the Commission adopts the Intended Use
     Plan, including the Priority System and Priority List, the Executive Director or his


                                            216
