                      (3)    such other factors as the Permit Board deems appropriate.

       (3)    Antidegradation

       All applicants for new or expanding NPDES permitted discharges to state waters shall
       comply with MDEQ’s Antidegradation Policy and submit an Antidegradation Report as
       part of the application or reapplication process in compliance with MDEQ’s
       Antidegradation Implementation Methods in Exhibit E.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.1.2 Permit Applications.

A.     Permits: Applications, Filing Procedures and Requirements

       (1)    All applications for permits shall be on forms prescribed by the Commission
              and/or the Permit Board. In addition to those forms, the Department may require
              an applicant to provide a summary of its compliance history and/or present
              evidence of its financial capability and responsibility.

       (2)    A person discharging waste from more than one location shall file a separate
              application for each discharge location. A single application may be filed for
              multiple outfalls discharging from a single location, provided the discharge from
              each outfall is described separately in the application.

       (3)    The application shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements set forth in
              40 CFR 122.21-.37, 122.44, 124.3(a) and (d) as of the date the permit application
              is deemed complete, which are incorporated herein and adopted by reference, and
              in accordance with these regulations.

B.     Permits: Application Exemptions

A person discharging or proposing to discharge the following types of wastes shall not be
required to apply for a permit from the Permit Board pursuant to this regulation:

       (1)    human sewage from vessels;

       (2)    water, gas and other materials injected into a well to facilitate production of oil or
              gas, or fluids derived in association with oil or gas production and disposal
              thereof in a well where authorized by the State Supervisor of the Oil and Gas
              Board (this includes wastes from gas plants which are an integral part of
              production operations, unless those wastes are classified as hazardous wastes, and
              wastes generated from enhanced recovery operations and hydrocarbon storage
              facilities);




                                               22
