            (c)    All capitalization grant funds will first be used toward compliance with
                   the enforceable requirements of the Act, including the municipal
                   compliance deadline of July 1, 1988, in accordance with EPA guidance.

            (d)    All projects funded with funds directly made available by capitalization
                   grants will meet the Federal Title II requirements as described in Rule
                   4.2.G. of this regulation.

     (4)    The Priority System which describes the method of ranking projects, the method
            for distribution of funds, and project action deadlines which all fundable projects
            must meet or be subject to bypass from the priority list.

I.   SRF Financing. The SRF has been established to provide low interest loans to assist and
     encourage communities to construct wastewater treatment and collection facilities
     required to improve water quality and public health. Types of assistance are itemized in
     Rule 4.2.E. of this regulation. Basic SRF financing requirements are as follows:

     (1)    All eligible applicants requesting SRF assistance shall meet the following
            requirements in order to receive such assistance.

            (a)    The applicant's project must be on the fundable portion of the current
                   year's Priority List.

            (b)    The applicant must enter into legal and binding commitments with the
                   Commission and the State Tax Commission to secure financing.

            (c)    Terms of any SRF assistance will be as established in the Intended Use
                   Plan for the projects to be funded in each fiscal year, and will be further
                   established in the SRF loan agreement and repayment agreement.

            (d)    The applicant must complete an application, and must secure approvals of
                   all documents required by the Department.

            (e)    The applicant must comply with the requirements of the Water Quality
                   Act of 1987 and all applicable state laws, requirements and regulations.

            (f)    The applicant must establish a dedicated source of funds for repayment of
                   the loan.

            (g)    The applicant must not be in violation of, or delinquent on, any provision
                   of a previously awarded SRF loan agreement and repayment agreement.

     (2)    Payments from the fund to the loan recipient shall be made no more often than
            monthly, generally as construction is progressing.         Except for program
            administration expenses, funds will not be disbursed from the construction fund
            without first entering into a legal and binding commitment with the Commission.
            Project payments are further described in Rule 4.3.G.

                                            220
