      documents must bear the seal of the registered professional engineer
      responsible for preparation of these documents.

(b)   Contents. The plans, specifications, and contract documents shall contain
      the following:

      (1)    Provisions assuring compliance with these regulations and all
             relevant federal and state laws.

      (2)    Forms by which the bid bond, performance bond and payment
             bonds will be provided.

      (3)    Until such time as the State satisfies the Title II funding limitations
             described in Rule 4.2.G. of this regulation, provisions requiring the
             successful contractor and subcontractors to pay all laborers and
             mechanics employed on the project not less than the prevailing
             wage rates, as determined by the United States Secretary of Labor,
             in accordance with the federal Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276, et
             seq.).

      (4)    A contractor's assurance form to be executed by the contractor
             which shall warrant compliance by the contractor with all
             applicable federal laws and regulations and all law of the State of
             Mississippi and all regulations and published policies of the
             Commission.

      (5)    If determined to be necessary by the applicant, provisions
             providing for the applicant to retain a certain percentage of the
             progress payments otherwise due to the contractor until the
             building of the project is substantially complete, in accordance
             with state law.

      (6)    Provisions requiring the contractor to obtain and maintain the
             appropriate insurance coverage.

      (7)    Provisions giving authorized representatives of the Department
             access to all such construction activities, books, records,
             documents and other evidence of the contractor for the purpose of
             inspection, audit and copying during normal business and/or
             working hours.

      (8)    Provisions for compliance with the MBE/WBE requirements as
             described in Appendix E of this regulation.

      (9)    Those conditions, specifications and other provisions provided by
             or required by the Department staff.


                              223
