           (c)    Related Submittals. The following documents, if applicable to the project,
                  must also be submitted prior to, or along with the plans, specifications,
                  and contract documents; or at other times may be required by the Priority
                  System:

                  (1)     A completed NPDES permit application.

                  (2)     A completed Section 404 and/or Section 10 permit application, or
                          a letter from the Corps of Engineers which states that such permits
                          are not needed.

                  (3)     A completed solid waste disposal permit application.

                  (4)     Approved archaeological/cultural resource surveys, or a letter from
                          the Mississippi Department of Archives and History which states
                          that such surveys are not needed.

                  (5)     Approved vegetative/wildlife surveys, or a letter from the
                          Mississippi Natural Heritage Program which states that such
                          surveys are not needed.

     (4)   Approval of Plans and Specifications.

           (a)    Department Approval. The Department staff will approve the plans,
                  specifications, and contract documents upon determining that these
                  documents:

                  (1)     Conform to the requirements listed in this regulation;

                  (2)     Are consistent with all relevant federal and state laws;

                  (3)     Pass a biddability, operability, and constructability review by the
                          Department staff;

                  (4)     Are consistent with the facilities planning documents and
                          environmental determinations required by this regulation; and

                  (5)     Are otherwise approvable pursuant to review by the Department
                          staff.

C.   Application for SRF Loan.

     (1)   Preapplication Conference. Potential applicants and/or their consulting engineer
           shall request and attend a preapplication conference with Department staff as
           early in the application process as practical.



                                           224
