                  agreement, to own, operate, maintain and replace the facilities to be
                  constructed with SRF loan funds, and that (2) there are no restrictions
                  under federal or state laws or regulations regarding indebtedness which
                  may prevent the loan applicant from executing the SRF loan agreement
                  and implementing the project.

           (j)    A certified copy of a resolution by the loan applicant's governing body
                  which (1) authorizes the submission of the application, and (2) designates
                  an authorized representative or office for executing the application and to
                  be the authorized representative on the project.

           (k)    A copy of all actual or proposed interlocal agreements related to the
                  project. Such agreements must be executed by all appropriate parties and
                  must be approved by Department staff prior to loan award.

           (l)    A copy of the bid forms from the plans and specifications filled out with
                  the consulting engineer's cost estimates. The construction costs shown on
                  the application must match those on the bid forms.

           (m)    A certification regarding debarment, suspension and other responsibility
                  matters, in accordance with Appendix F of this regulation.

           (n)    All other forms, documents, and supporting information required by the
                  Department staff.

D.   Award of SRF Loan

     (1)   Upon determination by the Department staff that (a) all applicable requirements
           of this regulation and applicable state and federal laws have been met, (b) all
           applicable documents have been approved, (c) all applicable permits have been
           issued or will be issued, (d) the project is on the fundable portion of the current
           year priority list and has not been bypassed by the Commission, and (e) funds are
           available for the amount of the SRF loan application, the Executive Director, or
           his designee, shall execute and transmit an SRF loan offer (includes an offer
           letter, loan agreement and initial repayment agreement) to the loan recipient. In
           addition to the estimated allowable project costs as described in Appendices A
           and B of this regulation, the loan offer may include a construction contingency, as
           determined by the Department staff, in the project budget. This contingency may
           be reduced after receipt of construction bids as described in Rule 4.3.D.5. below.

     (2)   Upon receipt of the SRF loan offer, the loan recipient must completely execute
           and return it to the Department staff, along with a certified copy of a resolution by
           the loan recipient's governing body authorizing acceptance of the loan offer,
           within the timeframe established in the SRF loan offer. The loan offer becomes
           void if not executed and returned within the timeframe specified, unless extended
           by the Executive Director or his designee.


                                           227
