(2)   Observation During Construction. During all times that construction work is
      being performed, the loan recipient shall provide for full-time observation of the
      project by the consulting engineer and shall require the consulting engineer's
      assurance that the work is being performed in a satisfactory manner in accordance
      with the SRF loan agreement and the approved plans, specifications and contract
      documents, approved change orders, and in accordance with sound engineering
      principles and building practices. Less than full-time observation may be allowed
      when properly justified and approved by the Department staff.

      The Department staff is authorized to observe the building of any project at any
      time in order to assure that plans, specifications and contract documents are being
      followed and that the project is being built in accordance with sound engineering
      principles and building practices. A representative may be stationed at the
      building site by the Department staff to report on the manner and progress of the
      building or to report conditions relating to the equipment or materials furnished
      and the compliance by the contractor with approved plans, specifications and
      contract documents for the project. Such observation shall not subject the
      Department to any action for damages of other liability. Such observation will
      not release the contractor from any requirements of the contract documents or the
      consulting engineer from determining compliance with the requirements of the
      contract documents or the loan recipient rom insuring compliance with the terms
      of the loan agreement.

      The contractor, consulting engineer and loan recipient shall furnish the
      Department staff with every reasonable facility for determining whether the work
      as performed is in accordance with the requirement and intent of the plans,
      specifications and contract documents. The Department staff is authorized to
      review and require submission of daily logs, record drawings, field notes, and any
      other document prepared by any party in relation to the SRF project.

(3)   Observation of Materials and Equipment. The Department staff is also authorized
      to observe all equipment and materials furnished, including observation of the
      preparation or manufacture of the equipment and materials to be used.

(4)   Construction Deficiencies

      (a)    In the event construction procedures, materials or equipment are
             determined by the Department staff to be substandard, otherwise
             unsatisfactory, and/or not in conformity with approved plans and
             specifications, the Department staff may order the loan recipient to take
             such action through the consulting engineer in the manner provided for in
             the construction contract to correct any such deficiency.

      (b)    The Department staff may immediately begin withholding SRF loan
             payments should such substandard or unsatisfactory construction work,
             materials, or equipment become evident and may require the loan recipient

                                      229
