                   for review (1) a completed operation and maintenance manual for all
                   facilities to be constructed in whole or in part with SRF loan funds and (2)
                   a plan of how the loan recipient will insure that operators are hired and
                   certified in accordance with state law by the date in f. below.

            (f)    By the date initially established in the loan agreement (which is based
                   upon approximately 90% of contract time), the loan recipient shall (1)
                   enact the approved user charge system and sewer use ordinance, (2) secure
                   approval of the operation and maintenance manual, (3) hire and operators
                   and (4) submit their names and submit the operator certification numbers
                   for the operators certified in accordance with state law.

            (g)    Within 5 days after construction completion of each construction contract,
                   the loan recipient shall submit a determination of construction completion
                   and shall request a final construction inspection by the Department staff.
                   The determination of construction completion shall be made by the
                   consulting engineer and the loan recipient. The final construction
                   inspection may be delayed by the Department staff pursuant to review of
                   the loan recipient's request and justification for such delay. Should the
                   Department staff decide that the determination of construction completion
                   and request for final construction inspection are being unreasonably
                   delayed, a final construction inspection may be immediately performed by
                   the Department staff.

            (h)    Within 30 days after the final construction inspection performed by the
                   Department staff, the loan recipient shall submit final payment requests,
                   approvable summary change orders for all construction contracts, a
                   complete set of as-built plans for the entire project funded in whole or in
                   part with SRF loan funds, and all other administrative forms and
                   documents required by the loan agreement. Payment requests submitted
                   after this date are not allowable, regardless of when the costs were
                   incurred.

            (i)    Any other submittals or actions required by the loan agreement shall be
                   performed when so required and are subject to review and approval by the
                   Department staff.

     (8)    Retainage. The loan recipient may retain progress payments to any party under
            contract with the loan recipient, consistent with state law. Any such retained
            amounts may not be requested or paid to the loan recipient from SRF loan funds.

F.   Post Construction Phase

     (1)    Following final payment of SRF loan funds to the loan recipient, or upon
            expiration of any deadlines established by the loan agreement or the Department
            staff, the Department staff or other designated parties may perform an audit of the
            SRF loan project for the purpose of determining compliance with the SRF loan

                                            232
