           meeting the project performance standards. all certifications shall be submitted
           on forms established by the Department staff. Failure to submit such
           certifications or to implement corrective actions in a timely manner may result in
           the Department staff determining all or a portion of the loan award unallowable
           and requiring repayment of such unallowable amounts within 30 days of such
           determination.

G.   Payments to SRF Loan Recipients. Payments from the SRF may be made to SRF loan
     recipients under the following conditions:

     (1)   Payments may be requested by and may be made only to loan recipient, in
           accordance with the SRF loan agreement and the loan recipient's contracts for
           services and construction for work performed within the project scope and budget
           period, unless specifically allowed other by the SRF loan agreement.

     (2)   Payments may be requested and paid no more often than on a monthly basis.

     (3)   The loan recipient shall deduct from all SRF payment requests the amount of
           funds provided or to be provided from all other state and federal agency funding
           sources for allowable SRF project costs.

     (4)   Payment requests shall be submitted by the loan recipient to the Department staff
           and shall include the following:

           (a)    SRF payment request form

           (b)    Invoices for all allowable costs for which payment is requested, except
                  that invoices need not be submitted for payment of the facilities planning
                  and design allowance, as determined by Appendix B of this regulation and
                  need not be submitted for any administrative fee included in the loan
                  agreement.

           (c)    Any other documents required by the loan agreement.

     (5)   The timing of SRF payments will be as follows, provided the loan recipient is in
           compliance with the requirements of this regulation and all provisions of the SRF
           loan agreement:

           (a)    Upon execution of the SRF loan agreement, 50% of the estimated facilities
                  planning and design allowance, as determined by Appendix B of this
                  regulation, may be requested and paid.

           (b)    Upon execution and submittal of all construction contracts within the
                  project scope and upon issuance and submittal of the notice to proceed on
                  all such contracts, the remainder of the final facilities planning and design
                  allowance may be requested and paid.


                                           234
