           (c)    Payments for the construction phase services allowance, as determined by
                  Appendix B of this regulation, may be requested and paid based upon
                  incurred allowable costs. Such requested payment amounts are subject to
                  verification by the Department staff. No more than 85% of the total
                  construction phase services allowance will be paid pending submission of
                  the determination of construction completion, performance of the final
                  construction inspection by department staff, submission of the final pay
                  request, submission of approvable summary change orders on all
                  construction contracts, submission of as-built plans on all construction
                  contracts, and compliance with all other applicable provisions of the SRF
                  loan agreement. Upon completion of these actions, the remainder of the
                  construction phase services allowance may be requested and paid.

           (d)    Payments for allowable construction work may be requested and paid
                  based upon in-place work or delivered materials and equipment as
                  specified in the construction contract, and as supported by invoices and
                  verified as accurate by the consulting engineer and the loan recipient, less
                  any retainage. Such requested payment amounts are subject to verification
                  by the Department staff.

           (e)    Payments for eligible land may be requested and paid immediately after
                  loan agreement execution, provided the Department has approved the
                  purchase price and provided the loan recipient has submitted a bonafide
                  option to purchase within 30 days after purchase of the loan eligible real
                  property, clear title certification forms from both the loan recipient and the
                  title counsel shall be submitted to the Department.,

     (6)   Any payments made to the loan recipient which are at any time determined by
           Department staff to be for costs not in accordance with the SRF loan agreement,
           for ineligible or unallowable costs, or for related to waste, fraud, abuse or illegal
           acts under state of federal law, shall be repaid to the SRF fund with 30 days of
           such notification by the Department staff. Interest may be charged on such
           delinquent repayments after expiration of the 30-day period at a rate of ten (10)
           percent per annum, compounded monthly. Alternatively, the Department staff
           may withhold such amounts form subsequent payment requests.

H.   SRF Loan Repayment Requirements. All SRF loan repayment agreements will be
     processed under the following requirements:

     (1)   Interest on paid amounts will commence on the original construction contract
           completion date.

     (2)   The amount of interest accrued between the original construction contract
           completion date and the initiation of the repayment process will be added to the
           final allowable project costs to determine the principal amount to be repaid by the
           loan recipient.


                                           235
