                                        APPENDIX A

                        Determination of Eligible and Allowable Costs

Eligible and allowable costs under SRF loan agreements will be as described in the EPA
publication Handbook of Procedures, Chapter IX, with the following exceptions:

       1.     Federal procurement requirements do not apply. State law applies as further
              described in Appendix D of this regulation.

       2.     Reserve capacity within the design period (up to 20 years) is an eligible cost.
              Reserve capacity for interceptors, pumping stations, and force mains within a
              design period of up to 40 years is an eligible cost.

       3.     On wastewater collection projects which provide sewers to unsewered residences,
              public buildings and businesses, the service line between the public sewer and the
              point five (5) feet from the outside wall of residences and public buildings are
              eligible. Service lines for businesses are eligible between the public sewer and
              the property line of the business.

       4.     Construction work and construction related work which occurs by the date
              representing a 25% time extension to the original construction contract time is
              eligible. Construction work and construction related work which occurs after this
              date is eligible only to the extent approved by the Department staff pursuant to a
              review of the justification for all time extensions.

       5.     Costs for facilities planning and design are allowable up to the amount of the
              allowance determined by Appendix B, Table 1 of this regulation. Costs for
              construction phase services are allowable up to the amount of the allowance
              determined by Appendix B, Table 2 of this regulation, and as supported by
              invoices for costs incurred in accordance with the contracts for such services and
              to the extent such services are allocable to the SRF project.

       6.     On sewer system rehabilitation projects, the rehabilitation of service lines for
              residences and public buildings is eligible between the public sewer and the point
              five (5) feet from the outside wall of residences and public buildings. Such
              rehabilitation on service lines for businesses is eligible between the public sewer
              and the property line of the business.

       7.     Eligible costs include costs for the implementation of a non-point source
              management program established under Section 319 of the Act, and for
              development and implementation of an estuary conservation and management
              plan under Section 320 of the Act. Eligible and allowable costs will be
              determined in accordance with this Appendix.

       8.     Eligible costs include the costs of planning, design and construction of publicly
              owned and operated wastewater treatment and transportation facilities for the

                                              237
