                                           APPENDIX B

       Allowance for Facilities Planning, Design and Construction Phase Services

The allowance for facilities planning and design will be determined using Table 1 of this
Appendix. Projects for which the loan recipient must acquire easements or real property in
accordance with the federal Uniform Relocation and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act may
receive an additional 1% above the percentages shown in Table 1 for the planning and design
allowance. Projects for which a value engineering study is conducted may receive an additional
1% above the percentages shown in Table 1 for the planning and design allowance.

The allowance for construction phase services (includes costs for construction engineering,
resident observation, project administration, legal work, and all other costs for work, other than
construction, performed in relation to the project) will be determined using Table 2 of this
Appendix.

The estimated and final allowances will be determined in accordance with this Appendix and
Tables 1 and 2. All allowance percentages will be calculated to four decimal places using linear
interpolation. The amount of the allowance is computed by applying the resulting allowance
percentage to the initial allowable building cost. The initial allowable building cost is the initial
allowable cost of erecting, altering, remodeling, improving, or extending a treatment works,
whether accomplished through subagreement or force account. Specifically, the initial allowable
building cost is the allowable cost of the following:

       a.      The initial award amount of all prime subagreements for building the project.

       b.      The initial amounts approved for force account work performed in lieu of
               awarding a subagreement for building the project.

       c.      The purchase price of eligible real property.

The estimated allowances are to be based on the estimate of the initial allowable building cost.
The final allowances will be determined one time only for each project, based on the initial
allowable building cost, and will not be adjusted for subsequent cost increases or decreases.

The allowance Tables are not intended to be used to determine the compensation for facilities
planning services, design services, or construction phase services. Compensation for these
services should be based upon the nature, scope, and complexity of the services required by the
community. The actual compensation justified for a particular project may be more or less than
the amount of the allowance for these services.

Following execution of the SRF loan agreement, the loan recipient may request and receive
payment for the facilities planning and design allowance and the construction phase services
allowance in accordance with the procedures described in Rule 4.3.G. of this regulation.
Advances of allowances will not be provided.



                                                 239
