If a project change is significant enough to require a FONSI amendment, a new public hearing
will be required.

The recipient shall notify the public if the average monthly user charge will be substantially
greater (about 20% or more) than was presented at the public hearing. Notification may be made
in the newspaper or by a new public hearing.

Contact Agencies

Copies of all environmental actions will be sent to the appropriate contact agencies listed in
Attachment 3; other agencies will be contacted as needed. Comments from those agencies and
from the public will be carefully evaluated before finalizing any environmental action.

Resolution of Adverse Comments

Adverse comments received as a result of the environmental review process will be addressed in
the following manner:

       a.     The Department staff will first require the loan recipient to resolve the adverse
              comments, subject to Department staff approval.

       b.     If the loan recipient is unable to resolve the adverse comments and secure
              approval, the Department staff will render a decision concerning the adverse
              comments.

       c.     Should the loan recipient or the party which originally made the adverse
              comments desire to appeal the above decision, a request for an informal hearing
              must be received by the Department within 30 days after the date of such
              decision. Upon receipt of such a request, an informal hearing will be held with
              staff members, as designated by the Head of the Office of Pollution Control, and
              the affected parties. The Office Head, or his designee, will render a decision on
              the appeal as a result of the informal hearing.

       d.     Should the loan recipient or the party which originally made the adverse
              comments desire to appeal the above informal hearing decision, a request for a
              formal hearing by the Department of Environmental Quality must be received by
              the Department within 30 days after the date of such decision. Upon receipt of
              such a request, the Commission on Environmental Quality will hold a formal
              hearing to consider the matter, and will render a decision.

       e.     Appeals of the above formal hearing decision may be made to the Chancery Court
              in accordance with state law.




                                              245
