       (4)    The frequency of whole effluent toxicity testing for an application is defined in
              Rule 1.2.6 of these regulations.

E.     Misrepresentation of Information on Application Forms and Other Reports

       (1)    Any person making application for any permit, filing any record, report, or other
              document pursuant to a regulation of the Commission, shall certify that all
              information contained in such document is true, based upon information provided
              by responsible individuals.

       (2)    Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation, or
              certification in any application, record, report, or other documents filed with the
              Permit Board pursuant to the State law or the rules and regulations pursuant to
              such law, shall be subject to the penalties provided for in the Code for perjury or
              false statements.

       (3)    In the event the permittee becomes aware that it failed to submit any relevant facts
              in a permit application, or in any report to the Department or Permit Board, it
              shall promptly submit such facts or information.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.1.3 Procedural Aspects of Permit Issuance.

A.    Permits: Preliminary Determinations, Draft Permits, Certificates of Coverage and
Variances

       (1)    When the Executive Director or his/her authorized representative is satisfied that
              the application is complete, a preliminary determination with regard to the
              application will be made, including a proposed determination to issue or deny a
              State, UIC, NPDES permit or coverage under an issued NPDES general permit or
              under an issued State general permit for the discharge described in the
              application.

       (2)    If the proposed determination is to grant coverage under an issued NPDES
              general permit or under an issued State general permit, the Permit Board or its
              designee shall issue a certificate of coverage to the applicant.

       (3)    If the proposed determination is to issue a State, UIC, or NPDES permit,
              additional preliminary determinations shall be made as follows:

              (a)     proposed effluent limitations shall be identified for the constituents
                      proposed to be limited with a supporting rationale (individual storm water
                      permit rationales shall follow the procedures set forth in Rule 1.2.6.E of
                      these regulations);



                                               26
