archaeological/cultural surveys, vegetative/wildlife surveys, Section 404/Section 10 Permits,
Bureau of Marine Resources Permits, or other actions. The draft facilities plan or the transmittal
letter shall include a map showing the proposed construction and the land use (i.e. residential,
commercial, industrial, farmland, pasture, wooded, wetlands, or other) in the areas of
construction. It is strongly suggested that photographs of the areas of construction also be
included in order to expedite these determinations. The Department of Environmental Quality
must be copied on the transmittal letters (including all attached maps, photographs, etc.) to all
intergovernmental review agencies. These agencies should provide written comments and a
determination on the need for archaeological/cultural surveys, vegetative/wildlife surveys,
Section 404/Section 10 Permits, Bureau of Marine Resources Permits, or other actions.

The completed facilities plan shall contain all intergovernmental review agency comments,
public hearing comments, plan revisions pursuant to comments, and a summary of how each
comment was addressed.

Design

At least 90 days prior to the deadline for submission of plans, specifications, and contract
documents to the Department of Environmental Quality, completed archaeological/cultural
surveys shall be submitted to the State Department of Archives and History for approval;
completed vegetative/wildlife surveys shall be submitted to the Natural Heritage Program for
approval; and completed Section 404/Section 10 permit applications shall be submitted to the
Army Corps of Engineers (and the Bureau of Marine Resources for Jackson, Harrison, and
Hancock County projects). However, surveys and/or permit applications do not need to be
performed or submitted if the appropriate intergovernmental review agency has determined they
are not required. The Department of Environmental Quality shall be copied on the transmittal
letters to the intergovernmental review agencies.

By the deadline for submission of the plans, specifications, and contract documents to the
Department of Environmental Quality, approved archaeological/cultural surveys, approved
vegetative/wildlife surveys, and copies of the issued Section 404/Section 10 permits and Bureau
of Marine Resources Permits shall be submitted to the Department of Environmental Quality, if
required for the project. Evidence of approval from the appropriate intergovernmental review
agencies shall be included with the survey documents when submitted to the Department of
Environmental Quality.

Loan Application

At least 60 days prior to the deadline for submission of the SRF loan application to the
Department of Environmental Quality, a completed SRF loan application form, a brief narrative
describing the project, a map showing the location of all proposed construction, the
archaeological/cultural and vegetative/wildlife survey approval letters, and copies of the issued
Section 404/Section 10 Permits and Bureau of Marine Resources Permits (or letters stating that
surveys or permits are not required) shall be submitted to both the Department of Finance and
Administration, Office of Policy Development and New Initiatives, and the local Planning and
Development District. The Office of Policy Development and New Initiatives will solicit


                                               263
