(19)   Executive Director - The executive director of the Department of
       Environmental Quality, or his designee.

(20)   Financial Assistance - Loans by the Commission, acting through the
       Department, from the Water Pollution Control Emergency Loan Fund.

(21)   Financial Capability Summary - A financial analysis of a water pollution
       control system to determine whether the system has the capability to
       reliably meet the financial obligations on a long term basis.

(22)   Improvements - Includes making necessary repairs to existing water pollution
       control systems to meet the emergency and may include new construction needed
       to provide a permanent correction to the problems which caused the emergency.

(23)   Infiltration - Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
       sewer service connections and foundation drains) from the ground through such
       means as defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manholes. Infiltration does
       not include, and is distinguished from, inflow.

(24)   Inflow - Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including sewer
       service connections) as a result of rainfall or rainfall induced soil moisture from
       sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar drains, yard drains, area
       drains, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections
       between storm sewers and sanitary sewers, catch basins, cooling towers, storm
       waters, surface runoff, street wash waters, or drainage. Inflow does not include,
       and is distinguished from, infiltration.

(25)   Interceptor Sewer - A sewer which is designed for one or more of the following
       purposes:

       (1)    To intercept wastewater from a final point in an existing or proposed
              collector sewer and convey such wastes directly to a treatment facility or
              another interceptor or pump station.

       (2)    To replace an existing wastewater treatment facility and transport the
              wastes to an adjoining collector sewer or interceptor sewer for conveyance
              to a treatment plant.

       (3)    To transport wastewater from one or more municipal collector sewers to
              another municipality or system or to a regional facility for treatment.

       (4)    To intercept an existing discharge of raw or inadequately treated
              wastewater for transport directly to another interceptor, pump station or to
              a treatment plant.




                                       274
