       (6)    The applicant must not be in violation of, or delinquent on, any provisions of a
              previously awarded WPCELF, WPCRLF, or WPALP loan agreement.

       (7)    The applicant must submit a completed application and must, in a timely manner,
              secure approvals of all documents required by the Department.

       (8)    The applicant must establish a dedicated source of funds for repayment of the
              loan.

E.     Responsibility. The applicant/loan recipient is responsible for the proper planning,
       design, construction, operation, maintenance, replacement, performance, and fiscal
       integrity of the project. The Department's review or approval of any document does not
       relieve the applicant/loan recipient or any others of any liabilities or responsibilities.
       Department review or approval of any document is for loan eligibility/allowability
       purposes only and does not establish or transfer any such liability or responsibility.

F.     Other Approvals. The applicant/loan recipient must obtain approval of all necessary
       documents from each state, local, and federal agency having jurisdiction over or funding
       in the project, if so required by that agency.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-17-81 through 49-17-89, 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 5.3 Project Requirements

A.     Application for WPCELF Loan

       (1)    Obtaining a Loan Application. Potential applicants may request a WPCELF loan
              application package by contacting the Department. The Department will transmit
              the loan application package to the potential applicant.

       (2)    Budget Period. Costs for the project must be incurred within the Budget Period
              established in the loan agreement. When justified and when approved by the
              Department, the Budget Period may begin prior to loan award but may not begin
              more than 90 days prior to the issuance of a funding pre-commitment letter or
              receipt of the loan application by the Department. If project costs are incurred
              prior to loan offer, the prospective loan recipient agrees that he is proceeding at
              his own risk and relieves the Commission, the Department, and the Department
              staff of all responsibility and liability should such costs later be determined
              unallowable or should such funding not become available for any reason.

              The end of the Budget Period will coincide with the 30 day deadline described in
              Rule 5.3.D.(2) of these regulations.

       (3)    Contents of Application. All documents listed below must be complete and
              approvable when submitted to the Department.


                                               279
