          (e)   A procurement certification from the loan applicant and the loan
                applicant's legal counsel, stating that all procurement actions related to the
                WPCELF loan project have been, and will be, in compliance with state
                law and Appendix B of these regulations.

          (f)   A draft user charge system and ordinance. The ordinance implementing
                this user charge system must be enacted prior to final disbursement of
                WPCELF loan funds and by the date established in the WPCELF loan
                agreement.

          (g)   A statement of the amount of all local funds necessary for the project and
                a financial certification from the loan applicant which states that all local
                funds necessary for the project have been secured, or will be secured
                within 30 days after loan offer, and a statement to this effect from the
                funding source(s). If all funds for the project are being requested from the
                WPCELF program, this certification need not be submitted.

          (h)   A completed financial capability summary.

          (i)   A legal certification from the loan applicant and the loan applicant's legal
                counsel, stating that (1) the loan applicant has authority under state laws
                and regulations to receive WPCELFloan assistance, to collect user charges
                through an approved user charge ordinance, to enforce the user charge
                ordinance and sewer use ordinance, to repay the loan under the terms of
                the loan agreement, to comply with all other terms of the loan agreement,
                to own, operate, maintain and replace the facilities to be constructed with
                WPCELF loan funds, and that (2) there are no restrictions under federal or
                state laws or regulations which may prevent the loan applicant from
                executing the WPCELF loan agreement and implementing the project.

          (j)   If new real property or easements are necessary to construct the project,
                clear site certificates from the loan applicant and the title counsel
                indicating that the loan applicant has secured all such real property and
                easements (including power and other utilities).

          (k)   Completion of the intergovernmental review process as described in
                Appendix G of these regulations, and submittal of a completed
                intergovernmental review certification, any intergovernmental review
                agency comments received, and the action required to address all
                comments prior to awarding contracts for construction.

          (l)   All other permits, forms, documents, and supporting information that may
                be required by the Department.

B.   Award of WPCELF Loan



                                         281
