     (1)   Upon determination by the Department that (a) all applicable requirements
           of these regulations have been met, (b) all documents submitted with the
           application are approvable, (c) all applicable permits have been issued or
           will be issued, and (d) funds are available for the amount of the WPCELF
           loan application, the Executive Director will execute and transmit a
           WPCELF loan offer (includes an offer letter and loan agreement) to the
           loan recipient. In addition to the estimated allowable project costs as
           described in Appendix A of these regulations, the loan offer may include a
           construction contingency, as determined by the Department, in the project
           budget.

     (2)   Upon receipt of the WPCELF loan offer, the loan recipient must execute
           and return it to the Department, along with a certified copy of a resolution,
           if not previously submitted, by the loan recipient's governing body
           authorizing acceptance of the loan offer within the time frame established
           in the WPCELF loan offer. The loan offer becomes void if not executed
           and returned within the time frame specified, unless extended by the
           Executive Director.

     (3)   Upon return of the executed WPCELF loan agreement to the Department,
           any administration fee established in the loan agreement will be processed
           accordingly and such fee will be paid to the appropriate Department
           administration fund.

C.   Construction Phase

     (1)   Schedule. The following submittals, approvals, and actions will be required
           during the construction phase of the project. The Department may establish other
           time frames within the loan agreement when properly justified.

           (a)    Within 30 days after the original loan offer all local funds necessary for
                  the project must be secured and proof of such must be submitted to the
                  Department.

           (b)    Within 90 days after the original loan offer, the loan recipient (1) must
                  execute and submit to the Department a copy of all contracts for
                  construction/ equipment/supplies and engineering planning/design and
                  construction phase services, including contracts for land acquisition, legal,
                  and other professional services, and must issue any remaining notices to
                  proceed, begin remaining construction work, begin purchase of any
                  remaining equipment/supplies funded under the loan agreement and
                  transmit a copy of all notices to proceed to the Department, and (2) if any
                  contracts must be bid, the loan recipient must also submit a completed
                  loan agreement amendment request (to reflect as-bid and other executed
                  construction contract amounts, all other executed contract amounts, a



                                           282
