             construction contingency as determined by the Department, and any
             original administration fee) to the Department.

             The loan recipient will be responsible for assuring that every appropriate
             procedure and incidental legal requirement is observed in awarding these
             contracts.

             After review, the Department will determine whether a request for an
             increased loan amount is justified and eligible and whether funds are
             available. The Department may, if determined necessary and appropriate,
             transmit to the loan recipient an amended WPCELF loan offer, which
             includes in the project budget (a) as-bid (if applicable) and other executed
             construction contract amounts, (b) all other contract amounts, (c) a
             construction contingency as determined by the Department, and (d) any
             original administration fee. Upon receipt of an amended WPCELF loan
             offer, the loan recipient must execute and return the agreement to the
             Department within the timeframe established in the WPCELF loan offer
             letter. After execution of the original loan agreement, or if applicable
             the amended WPCELF loan agreement, the WPCELF loan amount
             will not amount must be paid by the loan recipient from sources other
             than WPCELF funds.

(2)   Preconstruction Conferences. If determined necessary by the loan recipient, the
      loan recipient may arrange and hold a preconstruction conference and, if held,
      must notify and allow attendance and participation by the Department.

(3)   Observation During Construction. During all times that construction work is
      being performed which requires the services of a registered engineer, the loan
      recipient must provide for full-time observation of the project by the engineer or
      his staff and must require the engineer's assurance that the work is being
      performed in a satisfactory manner in accordance with the WPCELF loan
      agreement and the approved plans, specifications, and contract documents,
      approved change orders, and in accordance with sound engineering principles and
      construction practices. Less than full-time observation may be allowed when
      properly justified and approved by the Department.

      The Department is authorized to observe the construction of any project at any
      time for compliance with the terms of the loan agreement and to determine if the
      loan recipient is assuring that plans, specifications and contract documents are
      being followed. A representative may be stationed at the construction site by the
      Department. Such observation will not subject the Department to any action for
      damages or other liability. Such observation will not release the contractor from
      any obligation to perform the work in accordance with the requirements of the
      contract documents, nor the engineer from determining compliance with the
      requirements of the contract documents, nor the loan recipient from insuring
      compliance with the terms of the loan agreement.


                                      283
