A.   General

     Eligible costs are those costs in which WPCELF loan participation is authorized pursuant
     to applicable statute. Allowable costs are eligible costs that meet the following general
     criteria in addition to any specific identification as an allowable cost within Appendix A:

     (1)    Be necessary and reasonable for the proper and efficient administration and
            construction of the project, be allocable to the project, and not be a general
            expense required to carry out the overall responsibilities of the loan recipient.

     (2)    Be authorized or not prohibited under state or local laws or regulations.

     (3)    Conform to any limitations or exclusions set forth in state laws, or other
            governing limitations as to types or amounts of cost items.

     (4)    Be consistent with policies, regulations, and procedures that apply uniformly to
            both state assisted and other activities of the loan recipient.

     (5)    Be accorded consistent treatment through the application of generally accepted
            accounting principles appropriate to the circumstances.

     (6)    Not be allocable to, or included as, a cost of any other federally or state financed
            program in either the current, prior, or future period.

     (7)    Be determined allowable by the Department after review of necessary books,
            records and other documents related to the costs. Failure to cooperate with the
            Department regarding access to project records or refusal to provide such records
            when requested by the Department may result in such costs being determined
            unallowable for WPCELF participation.

     (8)    Be within the scope of the project and budget period as described in the loan
            agreement.

     (9)    Be determined without regard to any previous federal grant, WPCELF or
            WPCRLF loan funding provided for facilities to be replaced, upgraded, or
            rehabilitated, except as described in Rule 5.2.D.(6) of these regulations.

     (10)   Be within the scope of projects that meet the definition of an emergency and are
            allowed under Rule 5.2.B. of these regulations.

     (11)   Be procured in accordance with Appendix B.

B.   Construction

     (1)    Allowable costs include:



                                             294
