(a)   The costs of contracts for construction work on the project, including
      prime contracts, subcontracts and the direct purchase of equipment,
      materials and supplies by the loan recipient.

      Eligible items in the project may include treatment works (which includes
      wastewater treatment, interceptors, collectors, and other items; see the
      definitions), nonpoint source management programs, and estuary
      conservation and management plans.

(b)   Collectors, including conventional gravity, small diameter gravity,
      pressure, and vacuum systems.

      For wastewater collection projects which provide sewers to existing
      buildings, service lines between the public sewer and the point five (5)
      feet from the outside wall of existing residences and public buildings are
      allowable. Service lines between the public sewer and the property line of
      existing businesses are allowable.

(c)   The costs of sewer system rehabilitation (including rehabilitation of
      allowable service lines) necessary to eliminate or prevent bypasses or
      overflows, or to provide proper operation of the treatment works.

(d)   The cost of treatment works capacity adequate to transport and treat
      infiltration/inflow that will remain in the system.

(e)   Treatment works which serve industrial or commercial users when such
      works are publicly owned.

(f)   Reserve capacity within a design period of up to twenty years (forty years
      for interceptors, including pump stations and force mains serving as
      interceptors).

(g)   Construction of nonpoint source pollution control projects and estuary
      improvements projects.

      On such projects which are also designed to provide for drainage, flood
      control, or any purposes other than control of pollutants or estuary
      improvements, only the portion of the project needed for emergency
      control of pollutants or estuary improvements is allowable.

(h)   Construction of treatment and transportation facilities for control of
      pollutant discharges from a separate or combined storm sewer system.
      On such projects which are also designed to provide for drainage, flood
      control, or any purposes other than control of pollutants, only the portion
      of the project needed for control of pollutants is allowable.



                               295
