            (i)    The cost associated with the preparation of the project site before, during
                   and, to the extent provided in the loan agreement, after construction. These
                   costs include:

                   i.     The cost of demolition of existing structures on the project site if
                          construction cannot be undertaken without such demolition.
                          Demolition of existing structures on the project site when not
                          required for constructing the project, will be considered to be an
                          allowable cost only if the existing structures constitute a real and
                          present hazard to safety, public health, or water quality which can
                          best be abated by the removal of the existing structures.

                   ii.    The cost of removal, relocation or replacement of utilities,
                          provided the loan recipient is legally obligated to pay for such by
                          law.

                   iii.   The cost of restoring streets and rights-of-way to their original
                          condition. The need for such restoration must result directly from
                          the construction and is generally limited to repaving the width of
                          trench.

     (2)    Unallowable costs include:

            (a)    Construction and construction related costs which are incurred after the
                   Department-determined allowable contract completion date (including
                   allowable time extension change orders), unless approved by the
                   Department pursuant to Rule 5.3.C.(6)(c) of these regulations.

            (b)    Treatment works which serve federal users exclusively, or almost
                   exclusively.

            (c)    Bonus payments for completion of construction before a contractual
                   completion date unless required by state law.

            (d)    The cost of additional insurance (e.g., for a specific project) beyond that
                   normally carried by the contractor.

C.   Equipment, Materials and Supplies

     (1)    Allowable costs include:

            (a)    The cost of a reasonable inventory of laboratory chemicals and supplies
                   necessary to initiate plant operations and laboratory items necessary to
                   conduct tests required for plant operation.




                                            296
