      involve the landspreading of sludge as the method of ultimate sludge
      disposal, the necessary vehicles and equipment for proper sludge
      application.

(g)   Replacement parts identified and approved in advance by the Department
      as necessary to assure uninterrupted operation of the facility, provided
      they are critical parts or major systems components which are:

      i.     not immediately available and/or whose procurement involves an
             extended "lead-time," or

      ii.    identified as critical by the equipment supplier(s), or

      iii.   critical but not included in the inventory provided by the
             equipment supplier(s).

(h)   Flow metering devices used for billing purposes. The costs of constructing
      or installing flow metering devices and appurtenances used for billing
      intergovernmental and major user flows are allowable costs. Meters
      constructed or installed for the primary purpose of billing individual
      residential, commercial, public or industrial users are not allowable.

(i)   The cost of furnishings, office equipment, and maintenance equipment
      dedicated solely to the pollution control project. Necessary and reasonable
      office furnishings and equipment include chairs, desks, file cabinets,
      typewriters, coffee tables, telephones, office supplies, calculators, copiers,
      book cases, shelves and lamps. Ordinary site and building maintenance
      equipment such as lawnmowers, rakes, shovels, brooms, picks, hedge
      trimmers, and other such equipment. Hand tools such as screw drivers,
      pliers, socket wrenches, electric drills or saws, etc.

(j)   Computers. Computers, display monitors, and computer software which
      are designed into the control system for the daily operation of the
      treatment works.

      Computers are also allowable if they are to be used for the operational
      control and analysis of the treatment works. Examples of such allowable
      uses include the scheduling of equipment maintenance and replacement,
      the operation of the loan recipient's pretreatment program, including the
      scheduling of tests to verify industrial compliance with pretreatment
      requirements, and for accounting and billing services.

      The cost of computer software specifically designed for the operation and
      maintenance of the treatment works is also allowable for loan
      participation. This includes the cost of developing unique operating
      programs for the specific loan funded project.


                               298
