(5)   Public Notices, Rationales and Fact Sheets: Mailing Lists

      (a)    Any interested person who desires to receive copies of public notices may
             request that his name be placed on a mailing list of the Permit Board for
             the information. The request shall be made in writing to the Department
             office in Jackson, MS, and shall be renewed in December of each year.
             Failure to renew the request is just cause for the Permit Board to remove a
             name from the mailing list.

      (b)    The written request of any interested person to the Permit Board shall
             clearly identify the name of the person, the person's address, and the
             desired documents.

(6)   Public Notices and Fact Sheets: Notice to Other Governmental Agencies

      (a)    When an NPDES or UIC permit with an existing or proposed discharge
             into interstate waters is drafted and the Permit Board determines that the
             discharge may affect the quality of the waters of any other state, the
             Executive Director or his/her duly authorized designee shall notify any
             appropriate state or interstate agency of the discharge and shall transmit to
             the agency a copy of the public notice. Additional information will be
             submitted upon request of the state and/or interstate agency.

      (b)    A state or interstate agency given notice pursuant to Rule 1.1.3.C.6 shall
             have 30 days in which to comment on the existing or proposed discharge
             and may submit in writing to the Executive Director or the Regional
             Administrator (or his/her designee) its views and recommendations. The
             views and recommendations submitted to the Executive Director by
             another state or interstate agency may be incorporated into the NPDES or
             UIC permit if determined by the Permit Board to be necessary or
             appropriate. If the views and recommendations are not incorporated into
             the NPDES or UIC permit, the Executive Director shall so notify the
             commenting agency in writing.

      (c)    Upon the posting of a public notice of a draft permit, the Executive
             Director or his/her duly authorized designee shall transmit a copy of the
             notice and fact sheet thereon to all agencies and other entities specified in
             EPA regulations.

      (d)    A copy of a public notice or fact sheet, or both, for a draft NPDES or UIC
             permit shall be sent to any federal, state, or local agency upon written
             request. The provisions of C.6.b. of this Rule, with regard to opportunity
             for comment, shall apply to the federal, state, or local agencies.




                                      30
