            the cost of a change order to include the piping would be an allowable cost,
            because:

            i.      the piping would have been included in the original bid,

            ii.     no additional construction or rework was required (beyond what would
                    have been required if the work had originally been included),
                    and

            iii.    there was no cost impact on other portions of the project (since
                    construction work had not begun).

            If this omission had been realized after substantial construction work had been
            completed, and therefore required rework, delay, or additional work beyond that
            which would have been required by defect free drawings, the cost of the piping
            would still have been allowable, but the additional cost of rework or delay would
            have been unallowable.

            The additional cost is measured as the difference between the cost which would
            have been included in the bid based on defect free drawings and the actual cost of
            the change order. For example, if a concrete tank had been constructed and was
            later found to be at an incorrect elevation due to an error in the design drawings
            and if it was necessary to demolish the tank and reconstruct it at the correct
            elevation, the entire change order would be unallowable, except for differences in
            excavation costs. If additional excavation was required to enable the tank to be
            constructed at the correct elevation (i.e., the incorrect elevation was too high), the
            cost of the additional excavation would be allowable. However, if too much
            excavation had been undertaken and fill was required to enable the tank to be
            constructed at the correct elevation (i.e., the incorrect elevation was too low), both
            the entire change order and the cost of the unnecessary excavation would be
            unallowable.

            Regardless of the allowability or unallowability of construction costs to correct
            errors and omissions, in no case are additional engineering, legal, inspection, or
            other costs allowable, except for the cost of inspecting allowable construction
            work, to the extent that such inspection costs would have been incurred to inspect
            the same construction if such construction had originally been included in defect-
            free drawings.

     (b)    Equitable adjustments for differing site conditions.

E.   Professional Services

     The term professional services refers to engineering, legal, administrative, and similar
     services. Should any costs for such professional services be incurred prior to loan award,
     such costs will be allowable provided the loan recipient has requested and obtained


                                             300
