Department approval of such costs and the loan agreement budget period includes the
time period during which these costs are incurred.

(1)    Allowable costs include:

       (a)    Pre-award costs. These costs include all engineering and other costs that
              are incurred in applying for the loan, including, but not necessarily limited
              to:

              i.     Public notification and public hearings.

              ii.    Preparing the plans, specifications, and contract documents.

              iii.   Preparing the draft user charge ordinance and draft user charge
                     system.

              iv.    Preparing interlocal agreements necessary for the project.

              v.     Surveys and all other work needed to obtain clearance or permits
                     from all intergovernmental review agencies.

              vi.    Preparing the loan application, applications for permits required by
                     federal, state or local laws, regulations or procedures.

              vii.   Compliance with the requirements of the Mississippi Real Property
                     Acquisition Policies Law, if required.

       (b)    The costs of services incurred during the advertisement, award and
              construction of a project to insure that it is built in conformance with the
              design drawings and specifications. These services are primarily
              engineering and construction management services provided during the
              advertisement, award and construction of the project, including inspection
              services, materials testing (e.g., concrete strength, soil compaction, etc.)
              required by the specifications, inspecting and expediting the delivery of
              equipment and material purchased directly by the loan recipient, review of
              shop drawings and record drawings, preparing change orders, payment
              processing, etc.

       (c)    The costs of legal, engineering, and other services incurred by the loan
              recipient in deciding procurement protests and defending their decisions in
              protest appeals under Appendix H are allowable regardless of the outcome
              of the protest, provided there was not an attempt by the loan recipient to
              violate or circumvent state purchase laws.

       (d)    The cost of development of an operation and maintenance manual.



                                       301
