              (c)    The cost of local travel (i.e., commuting expenses) between living quarters
                     and the construction site for persons working at the site.

              (d)    Acquisition of unallowable real property.

              (e)    The cost of insurance (e.g., for a specific project), beyond that normally
                     carried by the professional services firm.

F.   Claims

     (1)      Allowable costs, provided the costs are properly documented, incurred and
              requested prior to the end of the 30 day period established by Rule 5.3.D.(2) of
              these regulations include:

              (a)    Change orders to the construction contract as a result of settlements,
                     arbitration awards, or court judgments, to the extent that they would have
                     been allowable had there not been a claim.

              (b)    The costs of legal, engineering, and other services incurred by the loan
                     recipient in deciding procurement protests and defending their decisions in
                     protest appeals under Appendix H are allowable regardless of the outcome
                     of the protest, provided there was not an attempt by the loan recipient to
                     violate or circumvent state purchase laws.

              (c)    The costs of assessing the merits of, negotiating, or defending against a
                     claim against the loan recipient are allowable, regardless of the outcome,
                     provided that the matter under dispute is not the result of fraudulent or
                     illegal actions, or mismanagement, on the part of the loan recipient.

              (d)    Alterations in construction, engineering, legal, etc. contracts as a result of
                     settlements, arbitration awards, or court judgments are allowable to the
                     same extent that they would have been allowable had there not been a
                     claim.

     (2)      Unallowable costs include:

              (a)    Claims arising from work outside the scope of the loan.

              (b)    Claims resulting from fraudulent or illegal activities.

              (c)    Claims resulting from mismanagement by the loan recipient.

              (d)    Claims resulting from the loan recipient's vicarious liability for the
                     improper action(s) of others.

              (e)    The cost of settlements, arbitration awards or court judgments over and


                                              303
