      ii.     based on a published fee schedule or on reasonable fees charged to
              other users under similar conditions.

      Periodic payment of royalties for the right to operate under a patent are
      considered operating costs, and are unallowable for loan participation.

(e)   Buildings

      Allowable costs for buildings include those portions of the building which
      are directly related to the project, including buildings housing equipment
      and unit processes, laboratories, employee locker rooms, workshop areas,
      storage facilities for operational supplies, spare parts and equipment,
      necessary lavatory facilities, operator office space, etc. Those portions of
      an administration building which are not necessary for the daily operation
      and maintenance of the project are unallowable costs, including portions
      of the building used for public works functions (other than wastewater
      treatment), general accounting functions, conference rooms with
      associated audio-visual equipment, or other general uses not necessary for
      the operation of the project. Where larger facilities include conference
      rooms to be used exclusively for training of employees, such space is
      allowable if reasonable, and if approved by the Department as part of the
      loan award.

      Where unallowable building space is included in an otherwise allowable
      administration building, the allowable cost is determined by using the ratio
      of allowable floor space divided by the total floor space in the building.
      The costs of buildings and portions of buildings which are unallowable are
      to be deducted from the allowable project construction costs for loan
      computation purposes. Costs associated with unallowable buildings and
      portions of buildings (e.g., landscaping, driveways, parking spaces,
      electrical service, and other utility costs) are also unallowable, and must
      be deducted proportionately from the allowable construction costs.

(f)   Facilities For Income Generation from Processed Sludges and Crops
      Facilities which have the potential for generating project income to offset
      O&M costs are allowable if they are necessary to provide stabilized and
      processed sludges which are to be managed for income generation, or
      crops which are grown for sale as an integral part of the wastewater land
      treatment or sludge utilization process.

      Facilities and equipment built for processing crops grown on land to
      which sludge or wastewater has been applied may be an allowable cost if
      the recipient has all financial interest in the crop and if those facilities are
      necessary and reasonable to prepare the crop for prompt delivery to its
      market. Crop processing facilities could involve grain drying or
      fermenting.


                                307
