                   Facilities built for processing crops or sludge into marketable products
                   such as compost or heat-dried pellets may be allowable if those facilities
                   are necessary and reasonable to cost-effectively prepare the product for
                   prompt delivery to its market. Processing facilities could include the
                   drying and pelletizing operation when this approach has been selected to
                   stabilize the product. Facilities to store the marketable products to get
                   more favorable prices, to transport the product for sale to a market, or to
                   optimize marketing of the product, such as bagging operations, are also
                   allowable.

            (g)    Any administration fee charged to the loan recipient.

     (2)    Unallowable costs include:

            (a)    Ordinary operating expenses of the loan recipient including salaries and
                   expenses of the loan recipient's employees and elected and appointed
                   officials and preparation of routine financial reports and studies.

            (b)    Administrative, engineering and legal activities associated with the
                   establishment of special departments, agencies, commissions, regions,
                   districts or other units of government.

            (c)    Approval, preparation, issuance and sale of bonds or other forms of
                   indebtedness required to finance the project and the interest on them.

            (d)    Personal injury compensation or damages arising out of the project.

            (e)    Fines and penalties due to violations of, or failure to comply with, federal,
                   state or local laws, regulations or procedures, and related legal expenses.

            (f)    Costs outside the scope or budget period of the approved project.

            (g)    Costs for which payment has been or will be received from another state
                   or federal source.

            (h)    Operation and maintenance costs of the treatment works.

            (i)    Lease payments.

K.   Project Income From Bid Bond Forfeitures, Liquidated Damages, and Interest on
     WPCELF Loan Payments:

     (1)    Bid bond forfeitures shall have no effect on the determination of allowable and
            unallowable costs. The loan recipient shall make the determination of whether or
            not a bid bond will be forfeited.


                                            308
