D.     Draft Permits: Transmittal to Regional Administrator (or his/her designee),
Deficiencies, Additional Data Requirements

       (1)     Upon drafting an NPDES or UIC permit, the Executive Director shall transmit a
               copy thereof and any other applicable related forms to the Regional Administrator
               (or his/her designee) for his review and comment in accordance with 40 CFR
               123.43 and 123.44. Timely written comments submitted to the Executive
               Director by the Regional Administrator (or his/her designee) outlining any
               deficiencies or other changes he deems necessary to complete the permit
               application shall be considered by the Permit Board. The Permit Board will not
               issue an NPDES permit over the EPA Regional Administrator's (or his/her
               designee)'s written objection.

       (2)     The Permit Board, in its discretion, or upon request of the Regional Administrator
               (or his/her designee), may request of an applicant any additional information
               deemed necessary to complete or correct deficiencies in the application before
               processing the application or issuing or denying the issuance of a permit. No
               permit application shall be deemed to be complete and ready for disposition by
               the Permit Board until all information requested by the Permit Board has been
               supplied.

       (3)     The Commission may take enforcement action as prescribed by the State law or
               this regulation against any person who fails to either: (1) file a complete
               application; (2) correct deficiencies in the application; or (3) submit any
               additional information requested by the Permit Board.

E.     Public Access to Forms and Commission Files and Records

A copy of a permit application, (except for an NPDES general permit or a State general permit),
public notice, fact sheet, draft permit and other forms relating thereto, including written public
comments not classified as confidential information by the Commission under the provisions of
Miss. Code Ann. § 49-17-39 shall be available for public inspection and copying during normal
business hours at the Department office in Jackson, MS. Written request must be provided in
accordance with policies developed by the Commission and must state, specifically, records
proposed for review, date proposed for review, and copying requirements.

F.     Protection of Confidential Information

       (1)     Pursuant to Miss. Code Ann. §§49-17-39 and 25-61-1 (The Mississippi Public
               Records Act of 1983), 40 CFR 123.41, and the Commission’s Regulation Title 11,
               Part 1, Chapter 2, Regulations Regarding the Review and Reproduction of Public
               Records, the Permit Board shall make available to the public all information
               contained on any form and all public comments on such information. Effluent
               data and information concerning air or water quality also shall be made available
               to the public. Information that is determined by the Commission to be trade
               secrets shall not be disclosed to the public without prior consent of the source of

                                               31
