           such information. When a claim of confidentiality is made by a person in
           accordance with the provisions of Miss. Code Ann. ยง49-17-39 and Regulation
           Title 11, Part 1, Chapter 2, a recommendation on the questions of confidentiality
           shall be made by the Commission and forwarded to the Regional Administrator
           (or his/her designee) of EPA for his concurrence in such determination of
           confidentiality.

     (2)   A copy of a State, UIC, or NPDES permit application, public notice, fact sheet,
           draft permit and other forms relating thereto, including written public comment
           and other reports, files and information relating to the application not classified as
           confidential information by the Commission pursuant to 1.1.3.F.1.of this Rule,
           shall be available for public inspection and copying during normal business hours
           at the office of the Department in Jackson, Mississippi.

     (3)   Upon determination by the Commission that information submitted by a permit
           applicant is entitled to protection against disclosure as trade secrets, the
           information shall be so labeled and otherwise handled as confidential. Copies of
           the information and a notice of the Commission's action shall be forwarded to the
           Regional Administrator (or his/her designee). In making its determination of the
           entitlement of information to protection as confidential, the Commission shall
           follow the procedure set forth in Regulation Title 11, Part 1, Chapter 2.

G.   Draft Permits: Public Hearings

     (1)   Determinations and Scheduling

           (a)    Within the 30-day comment period or other applicable comment period
                  provided after posting or publishing of a public notice pursuant to B. of
                  this Rule, an applicant, any affected state or interstate agency, the
                  Regional Administrator (or his/her designee) or any other interested
                  person or agency may file a petition with the Permit Board for a public
                  hearing on a draft NPDES or UIC permit. A petition for a public hearing
                  shall indicate the reasons why a hearing is requested, the interest in or
                  relationship of the petitioner to the draft permit or existing or proposed
                  discharge identified therein and shall specifically indicate which portions
                  of the draft permit or NPDES or UIC form or information warrants a
                  public hearing. If the Permit Board determines that a petition states
                  sufficient cause or that there is significant public interest in a draft permit
                  for a public hearing, it may schedule such a hearing.

           (b)    The hearing may be held in the geographical location of the proposed
                  discharge or, in the discretion of the Permit Board, at another appropriate
                  location, and shall be noticed at least thirty (30) days before the hearing.
                  The notice of public hearing shall be transmitted to the applicant and shall
                  be published in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the
                  geographical area of the existing or proposed discharge identified on the

                                            32
