A.   Eligible Applicant Determination. To be eligible for financial assistance, an applicant
     must meet the definition of an eligible applicant as described in Appendix M of these
     regulations, as determined by the Department.

B.   Intended Use Plan (IUP). In each fiscal year for which funds are available in the
     WPCRLF, the Commission will establish and publish an IUP in conformance with
     federal requirements. The IUP includes a mechanism developed by the Department to
     prioritize potential projects for uses of the available funds. The IUP describes the
     intended use of the funds in the WPCRLF and how the uses support the goals of the
     program.

C.   Reserves. The Commission may reserve certain percentages of the State’s federal Title
     VI allotment from each fiscal year for administration of the WPCRLF program and for
     planning under Sections 205(j) and 303(e) of the Act, consistent with the Act and state
     law. The Commission may also charge administrative fees to loan recipients for
     administration of the WPCRLF program, as established in each year’s IUP.

D.   Public Comment and Review. In accordance with the Act, the Commission will establish
     and provide for public comment on and review of the annual IUP. The Department may
     take into consideration any comments prior to adoption of the annual IUP. After adoption
     by the Commission, modification to these documents may be adopted by the Commission
     as provided for in the IUP without further public comment and review.

E.   WPCRLF Uses. The fund may be used for the following purposes, or as established in
     the IUP, for a given fiscal year.

     (1)    To make loans to eligible applicants on the condition that:

            (a)     Such loans are made at or below market interest rates, at terms not to
                    exceed 20 years after project completion, or for such period as may be
                    allowed by federal law.

            (b)     The loan applicant shall establish a dedicated source of revenue for
                    repayment of loans.

            (c)     The fund shall be credited with all payments of principal and interest on
                    all loans.

            (d)     The loan applicant is in compliance with WPCRLF regulations.

     (2)    Under the conditions in (1) above, to refinance the debt obligation of loan
            recipients when such debt obligations were incurred and construction began on or
            after such date as established in the IUP for a given fiscal year, and where such
            projects have complied with the WPCRLF Regulations. The loan applicant
            agrees that, by pursuing such a refinancing arrangement, it does so at its own risk
            and thereby relieves the Commission and Department of all responsibility and


                                            321
