           liability should costs later be determined unallowable for any reason or should
           funding not become available for any reason.

     (3)   As a source of revenue or security for the payment of principal and interest on
           revenue or general obligation bonds issued by the state if the proceeds of the sale
           of such bonds will be deposited in the WPCRLF and provided such authority is
           established in state law.

     (4)   For the reasonable costs of administering the WPCRLF program and conducting
           activities under Title VI of the Act.

     (5)   To earn interest on WPCRLF accounts.

F.   WPCRLF Financial Assistance.

     (1)   The WPCRLF has been established to provide loans to eligible loan applicants for
           the purpose of funding:

           (a)    Construction of publicly owned treatment works as defined in Section 212
                  of the Act.

           (b)    Implementation of nonpoint source pollution management programs
                  established under Section 319 of the Act.

           (c)    Development and implementation of estuary conservation and
                  management plans under Section 320 of the Act.

     (2)   Basic financial assistance requirements are as follows:

           (a)    Section 212 projects shall be included on the fundable or planning portion
                  of the Priority List in the current year’s IUP.

           (b)    Terms of any financial assistance shall be as established in the IUP for the
                  projects to be funded in each fiscal year and shall be further established in
                  the loan agreement.

           (c)    The loan applicant or recipient shall comply with the requirements of the
                  Act, as amended, all applicable state laws, requirements, regulations, and
                  the annual IUP.

           (d)    The applicant must not be in violation of any provisions of a previously
                  awarded WPCRLF, WPCELF or WPALP loan agreement.

           (e)    The applicant must not be in arrears in repayments to the WPCRLF, the
                  WPCELF, the WPALP or on any other loan.



                                           322
