              (f)     Funds will not be disbursed to loan recipients until the loan recipient has
                      entered into a WPCRLF loan agreement with the Department.

              (g)     The WPCRLF program will provide assistance only to projects that are
                      consistent with any water quality management plans developed under
                      sections 205(j), 208, 303(e), 319 and 320 of the Act as applicable.

G.     State Capitalization Grant Application.

       After the Commission adopts each annual IUP, the Executive Director may submit the
       IUP with an application to the appropriate federal agency for any available federal funds.

H.     WPCRLF Program Administration.

       The WPCRLF Program will be administered by the Commission acting through the
       Department, in accordance with the Act, applicable federal regulations, state law and
       these regulations.

I.     Responsibility.

       The applicant/loan recipient is responsible for compliance with all applicable state and
       federal laws and regulations, and for the proper planning, design, construction, operation,
       maintenance, replacement, performance, and fiscal integrity of the project. The
       Department’s approval of any document does not relieve the applicant/loan recipient or
       any others of any liabilities or responsibilities. Department review and/or approval of
       any document is for loan eligibility/allowability purposes and does not establish or
       convey any such liability or responsibility.

J.     Other Approvals.

       The applicant/loan recipient must obtain approval of all necessary documents from each
       state, local, and federal agency having jurisdiction over or funding in the project, if so
       required by that agency.

Source: Miss. Code Ann, §§ 49-17-81 through 49-17-89, 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 6.3 Project Requirements. All water pollution control projects funded by the WPCRLF
must comply with the following requirements. Non-point source pollution control projects and
estuary management projects must comply with these requirements to the extent described in the
loan application and loan agreement, as established by the Department.

A.     Facilities Planning.

       (1)    Preplanning Guidance and Conference. The Department will provide facilities
              planning guidance to the potential applicant and/or its engineer. The potential loan
              applicant and/or its engineer should attend a preplanning conference with the


                                                 323
