      Department as early in the planning process as practical. During the conference
      the staff will provide information on the required facilities planning documents
      necessary to comply with these regulations. All facilities plans must be prepared
      by or under the responsible supervision of a professional engineer registered
      under Mississippi law.

(2)   Contents of the Facilities Plan. The facilities plan must comply with the
      Department’s guidance, including updates, Appendices A, B and J of these
      regulations and any other requirements of the Department pursuant to review of
      the facilities plan. The facilities plan must generally contain the following, as
      determined appropriate by the Department:

      (a)    A description of the existing water pollution control facilities, if any,
             owned by the applicant.

      (b)    A description of the existing and/or future water pollution problem or
             threat to be addressed by the proposed project.

      (c)    Documentation of sufficient flow monitoring and/or estimation to quantify
             wastewater, infiltration and inflow, applicable effluent limitations, and any
             other technical data necessary to provide the basis for preliminary
             engineering design of the project.

      (d)    A description of the proposed facilities, costs, location, and how the
             proposed facilities will address the existing and/or future water pollution
             problem or threat identified in the plan.

      (e)    A demonstration that minorities within the jurisdictional boundaries of the
             loan applicant will not be systematically excluded from the benefits of the
             proposed projects.

      (f)    A specific indication that each applicable intergovernmental review
             agency has been contacted regarding the proposed project, any adverse
             comments from the applicable intergovernmental review agencies, and an
             indication of all necessary permits and clearances that must be obtained
             for this project. Intergovernmental review agencies are as follows:

             (i)     Mississippi Department of Archives and History (for
                     archaeological/cultural resources review under the State
                     Antiquities Law)

             (ii)    Mississippi Department of Wildlife, Fisheries, and Parks-Natural
                     Heritage Program (for vegetative/wildlife review under the
                     Nongame and Endangered Species Conservation Act.)

             (iii)   U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Regulatory Functions Branch (for


                                      324
