B.   Application for WPCRLF Loan.

     (1)   Preapplication Guidance and Conference.

           The Department will provide a loan application package to the potential loan
           applicant and/or its engineer. The potential loan applicant and/or its engineer may
           request a preapplication conference with the Department as early in the
           application process as practical.

     (2)   Contents of an Application Package. Forms provided by the Department must be
           used and may not be altered. The WPCRLF loan application may request
           assistance only for costs that are allowable in accordance with Appendix A of
           these regulations and may include a construction contingency, as determined by
           the Department, in the project budget.

           The application package must conform to these regulations, and must include the
           following:

           (a)    A WPCRLF loan application form with original signature.

           (b)    A draft user charge system and ordinance.

           (c)    All proposed or executed contracts for all administration, legal, facilities
                  planning, design, testing, construction observation and any other services.
                  An allowable cost certification must be submitted with each executed
                  contract.

           (d)    A procurement certification from the loan applicant and the loan
                  applicant’s legal counsel.

           (e)    A financial capability summary using the most recent cost estimates, if
                  different from planning estimates.

           (f)    Copies of all required intergovernmental review agency
                  permits/clearances, or copies of letters from the appropriate
                  intergovernmental review agencies which state that no permits or
                  clearances are required.

           (g)    A legal certification from the loan applicant and the loan applicant’s legal
                  counsel.

           (h)    A certified copy of a resolution by the loan applicant’s governing body
                  which 1) authorizes the submission of the application and 2) designates an
                  authorized representative or office to make application for assistance and
                  to sign documents, on behalf of the applicant, required to undertake and
                  complete the project.


                                           326
