           (i)    A copy of all existing or proposed interlocal agreements related to the
                  project, if applicable. Such agreements must be executed by all
                  appropriate parties and must be approved by the Department prior to loan
                  offer.

           (j)    All waste disposal permit applications, if not previously submitted.

           (k)    All other permits, forms, documents, and supporting information required
                  by the Department.

C.   Offer of a WPCRLF Loan.

     (1)   Upon determination by the Department that (a) all applicable requirements of the
           WPCRLF loan application have been met, (b) the facilities plan has been
           approved, (c) the project is on the current year priority list and (d) funds are
           available for the amount of the WPCRLF loan application, the Executive Director
           will execute and transmit a WPCRLF loan offer to the loan recipient. In addition
           to the estimated allowable project costs as described in Appendix A of these
           regulations, the loan offer may include a construction contingency, as determined
           by the Department, in the project budget.

     (2)   Upon receipt of the WPCRLF loan offer, the loan recipient must execute and
           return it to the Department, along with a certified copy of a resolution by the loan
           recipient’s governing body authorizing acceptance of the loan offer, within the
           time frame established in the WPCRLF loan offer. The loan offer becomes void
           if not executed and returned within the time frame specified, unless extended by
           the Executive Director.

D.   Design.

     (1)   Guidance and Conference.

           The Department will provide design guidance to the loan applicant/recipient
           and/or its engineer, who may request a predesign conference with the

     (2)   Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents.

           (a)    The engineer must prepare plans, specifications, and contract documents
                  on all appropriate elements of the project. These documents must conform
                  to Department requirements, to Appendices A, B, C, D, E, and J of these
                  regulations, and to the technical requirements of the Departmental
                  document “State of Mississippi Requirements for the Design of Municipal
                  Wastewater Treatment Facilities,” or its successor. Plans, specifications,
                  and contract documents must also conform to such contract language,
                  conditions, and forms as may be required by the Department.


                                           327
