           By the date specified in the loan agreement the applicant must submit complete
           plans, specifications and contract documents for the entire project to the
           Department.

     (4)   Approval of Plans, Specifications and Contract Documents. The Department will
           approve the plans, specifications, and contract documents upon determining that
           these documents:

           (a)     Appear to conform to the requirements of these regulations,

           (b)     Appear to be approvable pursuant to a technical review by the
                   Department, and

           (c)     Appear to be consistent with the approved facilities planning documents
                   and environmental determinations required by these regulations.

E.   Construction Bidding and Loan Amendment.

     (1)   Within the time frame established in the loan agreement and upon a) approval of
           the plans, specifications, and contract documents by the Department, b) issuance
           of any other permits or clearances required for the project, and c) submittal of
           clear title certificates from the loan recipient and title counsel for all real property
           and easements required for the project, the loan recipient must then advertise the
           project for construction bids. All procurement actions by the loan recipient must
           comply with state law and these regulations.

     (2)   Upon receipt of construction bids, the loan recipient must then submit a) the
           completed MBE/WBE documentation as required by Appendix D of these
           regulations, b) the completed bid package, c) all necessary executed contracts and
           amendments as described in Rule 6.3.B(2)(c), and d) a loan agreement
           amendment request (consistent with as-bid construction costs, a construction
           contingency as determined by the Department, and any professional services
           contracts and amendments) to the Department within the time frame established
           in the loan agreement.

     (3)   Upon the receipt of the completed MBE/WBE documentation, bid package,
           professional services contracts and amendments, and loan agreement amendment
           request from the loan recipient, the Department will review these documents,
           determine whether any request for an increased loan amount is justified and
           allowable and that funds are available and, after determining that all documents
           are approvable, will transmit to the loan recipient approval to execute the
           construction contracts.

     (4)   After receipt, review and approval of the loan agreement amendment request, the
           Department will prepare and transmit an amended WPCRLF loan offer to the loan
           recipient. The loan offer will include in the project budget (a) the approved as-bid


                                             330
