            amounts for construction contracts, (b) the amounts for professional services
            contracts, and (c) a construction contingency as determined by the Department.
            Upon receipt of the amended WPCRLF loan offer, the loan recipient must execute
            and return it to the Department within the timeframe established in the offer letter.
            After execution of the amended WPCRLF loan offer, the WPCRLF loan amount
            may not be increased except for funding of a subsequent portion of a segmented
            project as identified in the Intended Use Plan for a later fiscal year. Any
            increased project costs in excess of the amended WPCRLF loan amount must be
            paid by the loan recipient from sources other than WPCRLF loan funds.

F.   Construction.

     (1)    Awarding Construction Contracts and Preconstruction Conference. Upon receipt
            of the approval to execute the construction contract and issue the notice to
            proceed, the loan recipient must do so and transmit a copy of the executed
            construction contract and the notice to proceed to the Department within the time
            frame specified in the loan agreement.

            The loan recipient is responsible for assuring that every appropriate procedure and
            incidental legal requirement is observed in advertisement for bids and awarding
            the construction contracts. The plans, specifications, and executed contract
            documents must not vary from those approved by the Department.

            The loan recipient may arrange and hold a preconstruction conference and must
            allow attendance and participation by the Department if such a conference is held.

     (2)    Observation During Construction.

            During all times that construction work is being performed, the loan recipient
            must provide for full-time observation of the project by the engineer or his staff
            and must require the engineer’s assurance that the work is being performed in a
            satisfactory manner in accordance with the WPCRLF loan agreement and the
            approved plans, specifications, contract documents and approved change orders.
            Less than full-time observation may be allowed when properly justified and
            approved by the Department

            The Department is authorized to observe the construction of any project at any
            time for compliance with the terms of the loan agreement and to determine if the
            loan recipient and engineer are assuring that plans, specifications and contract
            documents are being followed. Such observation will not subject the Department
            to any legal action for claims, damages or any other liability. Such observation
            will not release the contractor from any obligation to perform the work in
            accordance with the requirements of the contract documents or the engineer from
            determining compliance with the requirements of the contract documents or the
            loan recipient from insuring compliance with the contract and the terms of the
            loan agreement.


                                            331
