      The contractor, engineer, and the loan recipient must furnish the Department with
      every reasonable opportunity and means for determining whether the loan
      recipient and engineer are assuring that the work is in accordance with the
      requirements of the approved plans, specifications and contract documents. The
      Department is authorized to observe and require submission by the loan recipient
      of daily logs, record drawings, file notes, and any other documents prepared in
      relation to the WPCRLF funded project.

(3)   Construction Deficiencies.

      (a)    In the event that it appears to the Department that the loan recipient and
             engineer are not assuring that the construction work, materials, equipment
             or supplies are in conformity with approved plans and specifications, and
             contract documents, the Department may determine these items are
             unallowable for WPCRLF loan participation, unless the loan recipient
             takes action, through the engineer if applicable, in the manner provided for
             in the construction contract to correct any such deficiencies.

      (b)    The Department may immediately withhold WPCRLF loan payments for
             such time that it appears that the loan recipient and engineer are not
             asssuring that construction work, materials, equipment or supplies are in
             accordance with the approved plans, specifications and contract
             documents, and may require the loan recipient to repay any previously
             paid amounts related to such work within 30 days of such notification.

(4)   Change Orders.

      (a)    General. In the event a determination is made by a loan recipient after a
             construction contract is executed that changes or modifications to the
             original contract are necessary or would better serve the purpose of the
             loan recipient, the loan recipient may, at its discretion, execute such
             change orders pertaining to the construction that are necessary under the
             circumstances, as provided in the contract documents and when in
             accordance with state law.

             Change orders must not change, vary, or alter the basic purpose or effect
             of the project. Change orders must be technically adequate, the costs must
             be necessary and reasonable, and eligible/ineligible costs must be
             appropriately separated.

      (b)    Change Order Submittals. After completion of the change order
             negotiation process and/or claims resolution between the loan recipient
             and the contracting party, an executed change order must be submitted to
             the Department for review and approval, in order to obtain a WPCRLF
             loan eligibility/allowability determination.


                                     332
