      as their agent) must be submitted for a WPCRLF loan allowability determination
      by the Department prior to execution.

      If the loan recipient determines that re-award of the construction contract or a
      portion thereof is necessary due to contractor bankruptcy or default, such
      proposed re-award contracts must be submitted for a WPCRLF loan allowability
      determination by the Department prior to execution. The loan recipient will be
      responsible for assuring that every appropriate procedure and incidental legal
      requirement are observed in advertising for bids or otherwise re-awarding a
      construction contract, if this course of action is taken.

(6)   Design and Construction Phase Submittals, Approvals, and Actions. The
      following submittals, approvals, and actions will be required during the design
      and construction phase of the project. The Department may establish additional
      time frames within the loan agreement.

      (a)    By the date established by the Department in the loan agreement, the loan
             recipient must submit a complete set of plans, specifications and contract
             documents to the Department.

      (b)    Within 90 days after approval of the plans, specifications, and contract
             documents by the Department, (1) all construction related contracts must
             be advertised for bids and proof of such advertisement must be submitted,
             (2) all local funds necessary for the project must be secured and proof of
             such local funds must be submitted, and (3) clear title certificates from the
             loan recipient and title counsel for all loan eligible real property must be
             submitted.

      (c)    Within 120 days after approval of the plans, specifications, and contract
             documents by the Department, the loan recipient must receive bids on all
             construction contracts.

      (d)    Within 14 days after receipt of bids, the loan recipient must submit all
             MBE/WBE and related documents.

      (e)    Within 21 days after receipt of bids, the loan recipient must submit all bid
             packages.

      (f)    Within 60 days after receipt of bids, the loan recipient must execute all
             construction contract documents, must submit a copy of all executed
             contract documents, and must issue and submit a copy of the notice to
             proceed on all such contracts.

      (g)    By the date established by the Department in the loan agreement (which is
             based upon 90% of construction contract time) the loan recipient must
             enact the approved user charge system and submit a copy of the enacted


                                      334
