     (2)   Upon completion of the WPCRLF audit (or if an audit is not performed,
           following approval of the final payment request of WPCRLF loan funds to the
           loan recipient or upon expiration of any deadlines established by the loan
           agreement or the Department), the Department will transmit to the loan recipient a
           copy of the audit report, if performed, and a final determination of allowable costs
           and payments due the loan recipient or repayments due the State. The final
           determination will also establish a 30-day appeal deadline, as required by (3)
           below, and will require repayment of any overpayments with an interest penalty
           to begin accruing on the appeal deadline.

     (3)   Within 30 days after the date of the above final determination, the loan recipient
           may submit a written appeal of the final determination, including a written
           justification of the reason for the appeal, and supporting documentation for any
           disputed costs of the final determination. Otherwise, the final determination of
           allowable costs will become the final allowable costs for purposes of WPCRLF
           loan payments and the WPCRLF loan agreement.

     (4)   Should an appeal be submitted, the disputes procedures established in Appendix F
           of these regulations will be followed in order to resolve the dispute and establish
           the final allowable costs.

     (5)   Upon expiration of the final determination appeal period, or upon resolution of a
           dispute of the final determination, the Department will transmit to the loan
           recipient a final WPCRLF loan agreement between the loan recipient, the
           Department, and the State Tax Commission. The loan recipient must execute and
           submit the final loan agreement to the Department within the deadline established
           by the Department.

     (6)   Upon receipt of an executed final loan agreement from the loan recipient, the
           Department will transmit the final loan agreement to the State Tax Commission
           for execution and return to the Department.

     (7)   Upon receipt of the executed final loan agreement from the State Tax
           Commission, the Department will transmit a copy to the loan recipient.
           Repayment of the WPCRLF loan will commence under the terms of the executed
           final loan agreement.

     (8)   If the project fails to perform properly at any time within the first year after the
           final construction observation performed by the Department, the loan recipient
           must immediately notify the Department of the reasons for lack of performance,
           submit an approvable schedule of corrective actions, and implement the corrective
           actions in accordance with the approved schedule.

H.   Payments to WPCRLF Loan Recipients. Payments from the WPCRLF may be made
     under the following conditions:



                                           336
