           (e)    Payments for allowable construction work may be requested and paid
                  based upon in-place work or delivered materials and equipment as
                  specified in the construction contract and as supported by invoices and
                  verified as accurate by the engineer and loan recipient, less any retainage.

           (f)    No more than 95% of all construction phase costs will be paid until
                  submission of the determination of construction completion; performance
                  of the final construction observation by the Department; submission of the
                  final pay request; submission of approvable summary change orders on all
                  construction contracts; submission of record drawings on all construction
                  contracts; submission of the engineer’s certification of compliance with
                  plans, specifications and contract documents; submission of loan
                  recipient’s resolution of acceptance of each construction contract;
                  submission of final professional services contract amendments, if any, and
                  compliance with all other applicable provisions of the WPCRLF loan
                  agreement. Upon completion of these actions, the remainder of all costs
                  may be paid.

     (6)   Any payments made to the loan recipient which are at any time determined by the
           Department to be for costs not in accordance with the WPCRLF loan agreement,
           for ineligible or unallowable costs, or for costs apparently related to waste, fraud,
           abuse or illegal acts under state or federal law, must be repaid to the WPCRLF
           fund within 30 days of such notification by the Department. Interest may be
           charged on such delinquent repayments after expiration of the 30-day period at a
           rate of ten (10) percent per annum, compounded monthly. Alternatively, the
           Department may withhold such amounts including interest from subsequent
           payment requests.

I.   WPCRLF Loan Repayment Requirements. All WPCRLF loan repayments are subject to
     the following requirements:

     (1)   Interest on amounts paid to the loan recipient will commence on the latest original
           construction contract completion date, or one year after initiation of the earliest
           construction contract, whichever occurs first.

     (2)   The amount of interest accrued between the date established in (1) above and the
           initiation of the repayment process will be added to the final allowable project
           costs to determine the principal amount to be repaid by the loan recipient.

     (3)   The term of the loan repayment will be from the time of transmittal of the final
           loan agreement to the loan recipient to the end of the term as established in the
           IUP under which the project is funded, or a reduced term if requested by the loan
           recipient.

     (4)   Repayments shall be made on a monthly basis and shall commence when
           determined by the Department. Repayments shall be made through monthly


                                            338
