       (2)    The Permit Board, in considering the designee's list of denials for coverage under
              a general permit, shall hear any request for reconsideration at the next appropriate
              Permit Board meeting following the issuance of the denial.

       (3)    Following review of preliminary determinations or modifications made by the
              Department pursuant to Rule 1.1.3.B, any comments on the draft permit received
              by the Executive Director from the Regional Administrator (or his/her designee)
              pursuant to Rule 1.3.D., comments received from the public during the 30-day
              comment period following public notice of the draft permit as provided by Rule
              1.1.3.C, comments received from the applicant pursuant to Rule 1.1.3.A, other
              applicable recommendations or determinations and review of the public hearing
              record after any hearing on a draft permit pursuant to Rule 1.1.3.G.1, the Permit
              Board shall make a determination to issue or deny the permit. The provisions of
              40 CFR 124.17 in effect as of the date the permit is issued regarding response to
              comments are incorporated herein and adopted by reference.

       (4)    Any appeal from the decision of the Permit Board to issue or deny a permit or
              coverage under an existing permit made pursuant to Rule 1.1.3.H.2 or 3 above, or
              to a condition of a permit issued, shall be in the form of a request for a formal
              evidentiary hearing before the Permit Board, in accordance with and subject to
              Miss. Code Ann. ยง 49-17-29. All such formal hearings shall be transcribed by a
              court reporter, and the testimony given shall be under oath.

       (5)    Upon completion of any formal hearing convened pursuant to Rule 1.3.H.4 above,
              the Permit Board shall make a final decision affirming, reversing, or modifying its
              earlier determination. Any person aggrieved by this final action of the Permit
              Board may perfect an appeal to the Chancery Court upon the record made at the
              formal hearing, pursuant to Miss. Code Ann. ยง 49-17-29.

       (6)    An NPDES or UIC permit issued by the Permit Board pursuant to the State law
              and this regulation is a permit for the purposes of State law. A State permit issued
              for pretreatment purposes or for the operation of a treatment works from which no
              discharge occurs, is not an NPDES or UIC permit.

       (7)    NPDES and UIC permits issued by EPA, for which the State has issued
              certification, shall have the same force and effect as if they had been issued by the
              State under this regulation.

I.     Final Permits: Transmittal to EPA

The Executive Director or his/her duly authorized representative shall transmit copies of all
NPDES and UIC permits issued by the Permit Board pursuant to the State law and this regulation
to the Regional Administrator (or his/her designee) immediately following issuance as agreed
upon in the State/EPA Memorandum of Agreement (MOA).



                                               34
