                      i.     The entity responsible for the affected railway, highway, or utility
                             requires such services for all parties conducting similar types of
                             work, regardless of the source of construction funding for the
                             project, or the services are required by law.

                      ii.    The cost of such services has not been included in the construction
                             contractor’s bid price.

              (n)     Engineering services or other services necessary to correct omissions in
                      the facilities plan, design drawings and specifications or other documents
                      to the extent that such costs would have been allowable for preparing
                      omission free documents.

       (2)    Unallowable costs include:

              (a)     Engineering services or other services necessary to correct defects in the
                      facilities plan, design drawings and specifications, or other documents.

              (b)     Public liaison services.

              (c)     Bad debt.

              (d)     Entertainment costs.

C.     Construction

Eligible projects may include treatment works, nonpoint source management projects, and
estuary conservation and management projects.

       (1)    Allowable costs include:

              (a)     The costs of contracts for allowable construction work on the project,
                      including prime contracts, subcontracts and the direct purchase of
                      equipment, materials and supplies by the loan recipient.

              (b)     The costs of sewer system rehabilitation (including rehabilitation of
                      allowable service lines) necessary to eliminate or prevent
                      infiltration/inflow, bypasses or overflows, or to provide proper operation
                      of the treatment works.

              (c)     The cost of treatment works capacity adequate to transport and treat
                      infiltration/inflow that will remain in the system.

              (d)     Treatment works which serve industrial or commercial users when such
                      works are publicly owned.


                                                 343
