                          public buildings are allowable. Service lines between the public
                          sewer and the property line of existing businesses are allowable.

     (2)    Unallowable costs include:

            (a)    Construction and construction related costs which occur more than 30
                   days after the current allowable completion date are not allowable unless
                   the Department determines that the loan recipient is implementing all legal
                   remedies provided in the contract documents for failure to complete
                   construction when required.

            (b)    Treatment works which serve federal users exclusively or almost
                   exclusively.

            (c)    Bonus payments for completion of construction before a contractual
                   completion date unless required by state law.

D.   Equipment, Materials, and Supplies

     (1)    Allowable costs include:

            (a)    The cost of a reasonable inventory of laboratory chemicals and supplies
                   necessary to initiate plant operations and laboratory items necessary to
                   conduct tests required for plant operation.

            (b)    The costs for purchase and/or transportation of biological seeding
                   materials required for expeditiously initiating the treatment process
                   operation.

            (c)    The cost of shop equipment installed at the treatment works necessary to
                   the operation of the works. The need will depend on the specific item, its
                   frequency of expected use, and the size and complexity of the treatment
                   facility. Larger treatment facilities will have a greater need for installed
                   shop equipment than smaller ones. Where the proposed items of
                   equipment are inappropriate to the size and/or complexity of the treatment
                   works, the Department may determine that the proposed equipment is
                   unallowable.

            (d)    The costs of necessary and reasonable safety equipment, provided the
                   equipment meets applicable federal, state, local or industry safety
                   requirements.

            (e)    The costs of necessary and reasonable collection system maintenance
                   equipment.

            (f)    The cost of mobile equipment necessary for the operation of the overall


                                            345
