              (a)    Construction costs resulting from defects in the plans, design drawings
                     and specifications or other contract documents only to the extent that the
                     costs would have been incurred if the contract documents on which the
                     bids were based had been free of the defects and excluding the costs of
                     any rework, delay, acceleration or disruption caused by such defects.

                     If the defect is realized after substantial construction work has been
                     completed, and therefore required rework, delay, or additional work
                     beyond that which would have been required by defect free drawings, the
                     cost would still be allowable, but the additional cost of rework or delay is
                     unallowable.

                     The additional cost is measured as the difference between the cost which
                     would have been included in the bid based on defect free drawings and the
                     actual cost of the change order.

              (b)    Equitable adjustments for differing site conditions.

F.   Claims

     (1)      Allowable costs, provided the costs are properly documented, incurred and
              requested prior to the end of the 30 day period established by Rule
              6.3.F.(6)(e) of these regulations, include:

              (a)    The costs of legal, engineering, and other services incurred by the loan
                     recipient in deciding procurement protests and defending their decisions in
                     protest appeals under Appendix I are allowable regardless of the outcome
                     of the protest, provided there was not an attempt by the loan recipient to
                     violate or circumvent state law.

              (b)    The costs of assessing the merits of, negotiating, or defending against a
                     claim against the loan recipient are allowable, regardless of the outcome,
                     provided that the matter under dispute is not the result of fraudulent or
                     illegal actions or mismanagement on the part of the loan recipient.

              (c)    Amendments or change orders in construction, engineering, legal, etc.,
                     contracts as a result of settlements, arbitration awards, or court judgments
                     are allowable to the same extent that they would have been allowable had
                     there not been a claim.

     (2)      Unallowable costs include:

              (a)    Claims arising from work outside the scope of the loan.

              (b)    Claims resulting from fraudulent or illegal activities.


                                              348
