                  Major rehabilitation may include the demolition and removal of an
                  existing privately or publicly owned onsite system in accordance with
                  Section C(1)(h)(i) of this appendix.

           (b)    Collection or service lines to an offsite treatment unit which serves a
                  cluster of buildings.

           (c)    The cost of restoring individual system construction sites to their original
                  condition.

     (2)   Unallowable costs include:

           (a)    Those portions of treatment works which have surface discharges from
                  individual residences or clusters, unless each discharge has a valid NPDES
                  permit.

           (b)    Modification to physical structure of homes, commercial buildings, or any
                  other structures which are not a part of the public treatment works project.

           (c)    Wastewater generating fixtures such as commodes, sinks, tubs, and drains.

I.   Real Property and Existing Improvements

     (1)   Allowable costs include:

           (a)    The cost of land that will be an integral part of the treatment process, such
                  as for land treatment facilities, acquired in accordance with the Mississippi
                  Real Property Acquisition Policies Law in fee simple title or by easement.
                  Except as allowed under Section I.(2) below, such land must be acquired
                  at fair market value based on an appraisal or a condemnation proceeding,
                  unless the purchase price of a parcel is $10,000 or less. These costs
                  include:

                  (i)     The cost of a reasonable amount of land acquired for the
                          construction of land treatment works, considering the need for
                          buffer areas, berms, and dikes. Buffer areas may be designed as
                          part of the project to conform with Mississippi Environmental
                          Quality Permit Board regulations, to screen sites from public view,
                          to control public access, and to improve aesthetics.

                  (ii)    The cost of land acquired for land application of sludge,
                          composting or temporary storage of compost residues which result
                          from wastewater treatment.

                  (iii)   Where properties are only partially acquired for project purposes,


                                           350
