(b)   Unless otherwise specified in these regulations, the costs of meeting
      specific legal requirements directly applicable to the project.

(c)   Costs for necessary travel directly related to accomplishment of project
      objectives, such as costs of loan recipient employees attending training
      workshops/seminars that are necessary to provide instruction in
      administrative, fiscal or contracting procedures required to complete the
      construction of the treatment works.

(d)   Cost of royalties for the use of, or rights in, a patented process or product.

      Royalties associated with the procurement of the right to use, or the rights
      in, a patented product, apparatus, or process are allowable costs, provided
      that they are based on a published fee schedule or on reasonable fees
      charged to other users under similar conditions.

(e)   Buildings

      Allowable costs for buildings include those portions of the buildings
      which are directly related to the project, including buildings housing
      equipment and unit processes, laboratories; employee locker rooms;
      workshop areas, storage facilities for operational supplies, spare parts and
      equipment; necessary lavatory facilities, operator office space; etc. Those
      portions of an administration building which are not necessary for the
      daily operation and maintenance of the project are unallowable costs,
      including portions of the building used for public works functions (other
      than wastewater treatment), general accounting functions, conference
      rooms with associated audio-visual equipment, or other general uses not
      necessary for the operation of the project. Where larger facilities include
      conference rooms to be used exclusively for training of employees, such
      space is allowable if reasonable and if approved by the Department as part
      of the loan award.

      Where unallowable building space is included in an otherwise allowable
      administration building, the allowable cost is determined by using the ratio
      of allowable floor space divided by the total floor space in the building.
      The costs of buildings and portions of buildings which are unallowable are
      to be deducted from the allowable project construction costs for loan
      computation purposes. Costs associated with unallowable buildings and
      portions of buildings (e.g., landscaping, driveways, parking spaces,
      electrical service, and other utility costs) are also unallowable and must be
      deducted proportionately from the allowable construction costs.

(f)   Facilities For Income Generation from Processed Sludges and Crops
      Facilities which have the potential for generating project income to offset
      O&M costs are allowable if they are necessary to provide stabilized and


                               352
