                                          APPENDIX K

                            Loan Agreement Defaults and Remedies

Each of the following events is a default of a loan agreement:

(1)    Failure of the Loan Recipient to make any loan repayment when it is due and such failure
       shall continue for a period of thirty (30) days.

(2)    Failure to comply with the provisions of the Agreement or in the performance or
       observance of any of the covenants or actions required by the Agreement.

(3)    Any warranty, representation or other statement by, or on behalf of, the Loan Recipient
       contained in the Agreement or in any information furnished in compliance with, or in
       reference to, the Agreement, which is false or misleading in any material respect.

(4)    An order or decree entered, with the acquiescence of the Loan Recipient, appointing a
       receiver of any part of the Project or Revenues thereof; or if such order or decree, having
       been entered without the consent or acquiescence of the Loan Recipient, shall not be
       vacated or discharged or stayed on appeal within sixty (60) days after the entry thereof.

(5)    Any proceeding instituted, with the acquiescence of the Loan Recipient, for the purpose
       of effecting a compromise between the Loan Recipient and its creditors or for the purpose
       of adjusting the claims of such creditors, pursuant to any federal or state statute now or
       hereafter enacted, if the claims of such creditors are payable from Revenues of the
       Project.

(6)    Any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar proceeding instituted by, or against, the
       Loan Recipient under federal or state bankruptcy or insolvency laws now or hereafter in
       effect and, if instituted against the Loan Recipient, is not dismissed within sixty (60) days
       after filing.

(7)    Failure to give timely notice of default as required below when such failure shall continue
       for a period of thirty (30) days.

The Loan Recipient shall give the Department immediate written notice of an event of default.
Upon any event of default and subject to the rights of bondholders with prior liens, the
Department may enforce its rights by utilizing one or more of the following remedies:

(1)    By mandamus or other proceeding at law or in equity, cause to establish and collect fees
       and charges for use of the Project and to require the Loan Recipient to fulfill the
       Agreement.

(2)    By action or suit in equity, require the Loan Recipient to account for all moneys received
       from the Department or from the ownership of the Project and to account for the receipt,
       use, application or disposition of the Revenues.


                                               368
