D.   Public Comment and Review. In accordance with the Act, the Commission will establish
     and provide for public comment on and review of the annual IUP. The Department may
     take into consideration any comments prior to adoption of the annual IUP. After adoption
     by the Commission, modification to these documents may be adopted by the Commission
     as provided for in the IUP without further public comment and review.

E.   WPCRLF Uses. The fund may be used for the following purposes, or as established in
     the IUP, for a given fiscal year.

     (1)    To make loans to eligible applicants on the condition that:

            (a)    Such loans are made at or below market interest rates, at terms not to
                   exceed 20 years after project completion, or for such period as may be
                   allowed by federal law.

            (b)    The loan applicant shall establish a dedicated source of revenue for
                   repayment of loans.

            (c)    The fund shall be credited with all payments of principal and interest on
                   all loans.

            (d)    The loan applicant is in compliance with WPCRLF regulations.

     (2)    Under the conditions in (1) above, to refinance the debt obligation of loan
            recipients when such debt obligations were incurred and construction began on or
            after such date as established in the IUP for a given fiscal year. The loan applicant
            agrees that, by pursuing such a refinancing arrangement, it does so at its own risk
            and thereby relieves the Commission and Department of all responsibility and
            liability should costs later be determined unallowable for any reason or should
            funding not become available for any reason.

     (3)    As a source of revenue or security for the payment of principal and interest on
            revenue or general obligation bonds issued by the state if the proceeds of the sale
            of such bonds will be deposited in the WPCRLF and provided such authority is
            established in state law.

     (4)    For the reasonable costs of administering the WPCRLF program and conducting
            activities under Title VI of the Act.

     (5)    To earn interest on WPCRLF accounts.

F.   WPCRLF Financial Assistance.

     (1)    The WPCRLF has been established to provide loans to eligible loan applicants for
            the purpose of funding:



                                            377
