(b)   A proposed user charge system and ordinance.

(c)   All proposed or executed contracts for construction phase engineering
      services.

(d)   All other proposed or executed contracts (administration, legal, facilities
      planning, design, and any other services), if WPCRLF participation is
      requested.

(e)   An allowable cost certification for each executed contract submitted for
      WPCRLF participation, wherein the loan applicant and professional
      certify that all costs associated with professional services are WPCRLF
      eligible and reasonable.

(f)   A procurement certification, wherein the loan applicant and counsel
      certify that the loan applicant will adhere to state purchasing laws, as they
      apply to local governments.

(g)   A revised financial capability summary using the most recent cost
      estimates, if significantly greater than that shown in the facilities plan.

(h)   Copies of issued permits or clearance letters from all required
      intergovernmental review agencies.

(i)   A legal certification, wherein the loan applicant and legal counsel
      certify that the loan applicant is an eligible applicant in accordance with
      Appendix M of these regulations.

(j)   A resolution by the loan applicant’s governing body which 1) authorizes
      the submission of the application and 2) designates an authorized office or
      representative to make application for assistance, to execute the loan
      agreement and any amendments and to sign documents, on behalf of the
      applicant, required to undertake and complete the project.

(k)   A copy of all existing or proposed interlocal agreements related to the
      project, if applicable. Such agreements must be executed by all
      appropriate parties and must be approved by the Department prior to loan
      offer.

(l)   An executed Pre-Award Compliance Review Report (EPA Form 4700-4),

(m)   All waste disposal permit applications.

(n)   All other permits, forms, documents, and supporting information that may
      be required by the Department.


                                382
