C.   Offer of a WPCRLF Loan.

     (1)   Upon determination by the Department that (a) all applicable requirements of the
           WPCRLF loan application have been met, (b) the facilities plan has been
           approved, (c) the project is on the current year priority list and (d) funds are
           available for the amount of the WPCRLF loan application, the Executive Director
           will execute and transmit a WPCRLF loan offer to the loan recipient. The loan
           agreement will include a project schedule consistent with time frames established
           in these regulations; however, the Department may vary these time frames and/or
           establish additional ones.

     (2)   Upon receipt of the WPCRLF loan offer, the loan recipient must execute and
           return it within the time frame established in the WPCRLF loan offer. The loan
           offer becomes void if not executed and returned within the time frame specified,
           unless extended by the Executive Director.

D.   Design.

     (1)   Predesign Guidance and Conference. The Department will provide design
           guidance to the loan applicant/recipient and/or its engineer, who may request a
           predesign conference with the Department.

     (2)   Plans, Specifications, Contract Documents, and Related Submittals.

           (a)    General Requirements. By the dates specified in the loan agreement, the
                  loan recipient must submit to the Department complete plans,
                  specifications, contract documents, and the applicable related submittals
                  listed below for each contract. The engineer must prepare plans,
                  specifications, and contract documents on all appropriate elements of the
                  project. These documents must conform to Department requirements, to
                  Appendices A, B, C, D, E, I, J and L of these regulations, and to the
                  requirements of Departmental design guidance.

           (b)    Contents In addition to the above, the plans, specifications, and contract
                  documents must minimally contain the following:

                  (1)    Provisions assuring compliance with these regulations and all
                         relevant federal and state laws.

                  (2)    Forms by which the bid bond, performance bond and payment
                         bonds will be provided.

                  (3)    Provisions for the recipient to retain a certain percentage of the
                         progress payments otherwise due to the contractor, in accordance
                         with state law.


                                          383
