      (4)    Provisions requiring the contractor to obtain and maintain the
             appropriate insurance coverage.

      (5)    Provisions giving authorized representatives of the loan recipient
             access to all construction activities, books, records, and documents
             of the contractor for the purpose of observation, audit and copying
             during normal business and/or working hours.

      (6)    Provisions for compliance with any applicable Minority Business
             Enterprise/Women Business Enterprise (MBE/WBE) requirements
             as described in Appendix D of these regulations.

      (7)    Provisions for change orders.

      (8)    Provisions for liquidated damages.

      (9)    Those conditions, specifications, and other provisions set forth or
             required by the Department.

(c)   Related Submittals

      (1)    A copy of the issued NPDES permit or the state operating permit,
             if required.

      (2)    A copy of the issued solid waste disposal permit, if required.

      (3)    A copy of the Permit Board’s variance, when it is not possible to
             provide buffer zones, if project includes wastewater or sludge
             treatment processes.

      (4)    For all loan ineligible real property necessary for the project,
             limited site certificates from both the loan recipient and the title
             counsel ich indicate that all such real property has been secured by
             at least one of the following actions:

             (i)     Clear title or an easement or lease for the expected life of
                     the project.

             (ii)    Execution by both parties of a bona fide option to purchase
                     or lease for the expected life of the project.

             (iii)   Initiation of condemnation by filing such action in court.

      (5)    For all loan eligible real property necessary for the project, limited
             site certificates from both the loan recipient and the title counsel


                              384
