     (6)    Within 21 days after receipt of construction bids on the last contract, the loan
            recipient must submit all necessary executed professional services contracts and
            amendments and a loan agreement amendment request (consistent with as-bid
            construction costs, actual professional services contract amounts, and a
            contingency as determined by the Department).

     (7)    After approval of the completed MBE/WBE documentation and bid package for
            each construction contract other than the last, the loan recipient may execute that
            contract.

     (8)    Upon receipt of the MBE/WBE documentation and bid package for the last
            construction contract, all necessary executed professional services contracts and
            amendments, and any loan agreement amendment request, the Department will
            review these documents, determine whether any request for an increased loan
            amount is justified and allowable, and determine whether funds are available.
            After approval of the MBE/WBE documentation and bid package for the last
            construction contract, the loan recipient may execute that contract.

     (9)    Within 60 days after receipt of bids for each construction contract, the loan
            recipient must execute the contract documents, must submit a copy of the
            executed contract documents, and must issue and submit a copy of the notice to
            proceed for that contract. The plans, specifications, and executed contract
            documents must not vary from those approved as loan eligible by the Department.
            The loan recipient may arrange and hold a preconstruction conference and must
            allow attendance and participation by the Department if such a conference is held.

     (10)   After approval of any loan agreement amendment request, the Department will
            prepare and transmit an amended WPCRLF loan offer to the loan recipient. Upon
            receipt of an amended WPCRLF loan offer, the loan recipient must execute and
            return it to the Department within the timeframe established in the offer letter.
            Any increased project costs in excess of those approved based upon as-bid
            construction amounts and a contingency (as established by the Department) must
            be paid from sources other than WPCRLF loan funds.

F.   Construction.

     (1)    Enacted User Charge System and Ordinance.

            By the date established by the Department in the loan agreement (based upon
            90% of construction contract time) the loan recipient must enact the approved
            user charge system and ordinance and submit proof of enactment.

     (2)    Observation During Construction.




                                            386
