(a)    Upon execution of the loan agreement, facilities planning and application
       costs may be requested and paid. No further payments may be requested
       and paid except as allowed below.

(b)    Payments for eligible land may be requested and paid immediately after
       loan agreement execution if the Department has approved the purchase
       price and the loan recipient has submitted a bona fide option to purchase
       or clear site certificates.

(c)    For each independent construction contract, upon completion of the
       requirements of Rule 7.3.D.(2) and (3) and E.(1) of these regulations,
       design and land acquisition costs related to that independent construction
       contract may be requested and paid.

        Where any construction contract is dependent upon another to function,
        the requirements of Rule 7.3.D.(2) and (3) and E.(1) of these
        regulations must be met for all such construction contracts in order for the
      related design and land acquisition costs for the dependent contract to be
        requested and paid. No further payments may be requested and paid
        except as allowed below.

(d)    For each independent construction contract, upon receipt by the
       Department of the executed contract documents and the notice to proceed,
       professional services costs related to that independent construction
       contract may be requested and paid.

       Where any construction contract is dependent upon another to function, all
       such executed construction contract documents and notice(s) to proceed
       must be submitted in order for the related professional services costs for
       the dependent contract to be requested and paid.

(e)    For each independent contract, upon receipt of the executed construction
       contract documents and notice to proceed for each construction contract,
       payments for allowable construction work may be requested and paid
       based upon in-place work or materials and equipment delivered to the
       construction location and as supported by invoices and verified as accurate
       by the engineer and loan recipient, less any retainage.

       For any construction contract that is dependent upon another to function,
       upon receipt of all such executed construction contract documents and
       notice(s) to proceed, payments for allowable construction work may be
       requested and paid based upon in-place work or materials and equipment
       delivered to the construction location and as supported by invoices and
       verified as accurate by the engineer and loan recipient, less any retainage.




                                392
