            (f)    No more than 95% of all construction phase professional services will be
                   paid prior to completion of the requirements of Section III.F.(6) of these
                   regulations, and until the Department has determined the final allowable
                   project costs. The remaining amount may only be paid with the final
                   payment.

            (g)    The final payment may be paid after the Department has determined the
                   final allowable costs. Additional amounts from prior payments may be
                   withheld by the Department until the final payment, if the Department
                   determines that the final payment amount would otherwise be insufficient
                   for loan closeout purposes.

            (h)    The Department may establish conditions in the loan agreement that vary
                   from the above, including delaying payments, when determined prudent.

      (6)   Any payments made to the loan recipient which are at any time determined by the
            Department to be for costs not in accordance with the WPCRLF loan agreement,
            for ineligible or unallowable costs, or for costs apparently related to waste, fraud,
            abuse or illegal acts under state or federal law, must be repaid to the WPCRLF
            fund within 30 days of such notification by the Department. Interest may be
            charged on such delinquent repayments after expiration of the 30-day period at a
            rate of ten (10) percent per annum, compounded monthly. Alternatively, the
            Department may withhold such amounts including interest from subsequent
            payment requests.

I. WPCRLF Loan Repayment Requirements. All WPCRLF loan repayments are subject to the
   following requirements:

      (1)   Interest on amounts paid to the loan recipient shall commence on the last
            construction contract completion date as established in the initial loan agreement
            for the project, or one year after the date in the initial loan agreement for issuance
            of the notice to proceed for the earliest construction contract, whichever occurs
            first.

      (2)   The amount of interest accrued between the date established in (1) above and the
            initiation of the repayment process will be added to the final allowable project
            costs to determine the principal amount to be repaid by the loan recipient.

      (3)   Repayments shall commence when determined by the Department, as established
            in the final loan agreement, and shall continue for the period established in the
            final loan agreement, in accordance with Rule 7.2 E.(1)(a) of these regulations.
            Repayments are to be made by counties on a semi-annual basis through
            homestead exemption annual tax loss reimbursement withholdings if adequate to
            provide such repayments, by municipalities on a monthly basis through state sales
            tax withholdings if adequate to provide such repayments and by all other loan



                                             393
