             On projects which are also designed to provide for drainage, flood control,
             or any purposes other than control of pollutants or estuary conservation,
             only the portion of the project needed for control of pollutants or estuary
             conservation shall be allowable.

      (g)    Construction of treatment and transportation facilities for control of
             pollutant discharges from a separate or combined storm sewer system.

             On such projects which are also designed to provide for drainage, flood
             control, or any purposes other than control of pollutants, only the portion
             of the project needed for control of pollutants is allowable.

      (h)    The cost associated with the preparation of the project site before, during
             and, to the extent provided in the loan agreement, after construction. These
             costs include:

             (i)     The cost of demolition of existing structures on the project site if
                     construction cannot be undertaken without such demolition.
                     Demolition of existing structures on the project site when not
                     required for constructing the project, will be considered to be an
                     allowable cost only if the existing structures constitute a real and
                     present hazard to safety, public health, or water quality which can
                     best be abated by the removal of the existing structures.

             (ii)    The cost of removal, relocation or replacement of utilities,
                     provided the loan recipient is legally obligated to pay for such by
                     law.

             (iii)   The cost of restoring streets and rights-of-way to their original
                     condition. The need for such restoration must result directly from
                     the construction and is generally limited to repaving the width of
                     trench.

      (i)    For wastewater collection projects which provide sewers to existing
             buildings, service lines between the public sewer and the point five (5)
             feet from the outside wall of existing residences and public buildings are
             allowable. Service lines between the public sewer and the property line of
             existing businesses are allowable.

(2)   Unallowable costs include:

      (a)    Construction and construction related costs which occur after the
             allowable completion date established by the Department.

      (b)    Treatment works which serve federal users exclusively or almost
             exclusively.


                                      399
