             (iv)   Tillage, planting, landspreading and harvesting equipment that is
                    documented as necessary and reasonable for land treatment process
                    and other vehicles demonstrated necessary to the facility and
                    approved in advance by the Department.

      (g)    Replacement parts identified and approved in advance by the Department
             as necessary to assure uninterrupted operation of the facility, provided
             they are critical parts or major systems components which are:

             (i)    not immediately available and/or whose procurement involves an
                    extended “lead-time” or

             (ii)   identified as critical by the equipment supplier(s), but not included
                    in the inventory provided by the equipment supplier(s).

      (h)    Wastewater and drinking water flow metering devices used for wastewater
             billing purposes.

      (i)    The cost of furnishings, office equipment, and maintenance equipment
             dedicated solely to the pollution control project. Necessary and reasonable
             office furnishings and equipment include chairs, desks, file cabinets,
             typewriters, coffee tables, telephones, office supplies, calculators, copiers,
             book cases, shelves and lamps. Ordinary site and building maintenance
             equipment such as lawnmowers, rakes, shovels, brooms, picks, hedge
             trimmers, and other such equipment. Hand tools such as screw drivers,
             pliers, socket wrenches, electric drills or saws, etc.

      (j)    Computers. Computers, display monitors, and computer software which
             are designed into the control system for the daily operations of the
             treatment works.

             Computers are also allowable if they are to be used for the operational
             control and analysis of the treatment works. Examples of such allowable
             uses include the scheduling of equipment maintenance and replacement,
             the operation of the loan recipient’s pretreatment program, including the
             scheduling of tests to verify industrial compliance with pretreatment
             requirements, and for accounting and billing services.

             The cost of computer software specifically designed for the operation and
             maintenance of the treatment works is also allowable for loan
             participation. This includes the cost of developing unique operation
             programs for the specific loan funded project.

(2)   Unallowable costs include:

      (a)    The costs of equipment or material procured in violation of Appendix C.


                                      401
