           (b)    The cost of vehicles for the transportation of the loan recipient’s
                  employees, including buses, trucks, cars, motorcycles, golf carts, bicycles,
                  etc.

           (c)    Items of routine “programmed” maintenance such as ordinary piping, air
                  filters, couplings, hoses, belts, etc.

           (d)    Radios, televisions, VCRs, camcorders, and other items of a similar
                  nature.

           (e)    Large stocks of laboratory and other chemicals and supplies above a
                  reasonable inventory necessary to initiate plant operations.

E.   Change Orders

     (1)   Change order costs are allowable provided they are:

           (a)    Necessary and reasonable.

           (b)    Within the scope of the project.

           (c)    Not caused by the loan recipient’s mismanagement.

           (d)    Not caused by the loan recipient’s vicarious liability for the improper
                  actions of other.

           (e)    In conformance with the WPCRLF regulations.

     (2)   Provided the above requirements are met, the following costs are allowable
           change orders.

           (a)    Construction costs resulting from defects in the plans, design drawings
                  and specifications or other contract documents only to the extent that the
                  costs would have been incurred if the contract documents on which the
                  bids were based had been free of the defects and excluding the costs of
                  any rework, delay, acceleration or disruption caused by such defects.

                  If the defect is realized after substantial construction work has been
                  completed, and therefore required rework, delay, or additional work
                  beyond that which would have been required by defect free drawings, the
                  cost would still be allowable, but the additional cost of rework or delay is
                  unallowable.




                                           402
