                      The additional cost is measured as the difference between the cost which
                      would have been included in the bid based on defect free drawings and the
                      actual cost of the change order.

               (b)    Equitable adjustments for differing site conditions.

F.    Claims

      (1)      Allowable costs, provided the costs are properly documented, incurred and
               requested prior to the end of the 30 day period established by Rule 7.3.F.(6)(d) of
               these regulations, include:

               (a)    The costs of legal, engineering, and other services incurred by the loan
                      recipient in deciding procurement protests and defending their decisions in
                      protest appeals under Appendix I are allowable regardless of the outcome
                      of the protest, provided there was not an attempt by the loan recipient to
                      violate or circumvent state law.

               (b)    The costs of assessing the merits of, negotiating, or defending against a
                      claim against the loan recipient are allowable, regardless of the outcome,
                      provided that the matter under dispute is not the result of fraudulent or
                      illegal actions or mismanagement on the part of the loan recipient.

               (c)    Amendments or change orders in construction, engineering, legal, etc.,
                      contracts as a result of settlements, arbitration awards, or court judgments
                      are allowable to the same extent that they would have been allowable had
                      there not been a claim.

(2)   Unallowable costs include:

               (a)    Claims arising from work outside the scope of the loan.

               (b)    Claims resulting from fraudulent or illegal activities.

               (c)    Claims resulting from mismanagement by the loan recipient.

               (d)    Claims resulting from the loan recipient’s vicarious liability for the
                      improper action(s) of others.

               (e)    The cost of settlements, arbitration awards or court judgments over and
                      beyond the allowable costs had there not been a claim, as established in
                      these regulations.

G.    Mitigation

      (1)      Allowable costs include:


                                               403
