           (a)    Costs necessary to mitigate only direct, adverse, physical impacts resulting
                  from construction of the project.

           (b)    The costs of reasonable site screening necessary to comply with facilities
                  plans and necessary to screen adjacent properties.

           (c)    The cost of groundwater monitoring facilities necessary to determine the
                  possibility of groundwater deterioration, depletion or modification
                  resulting from construction of the project.

                  The extent of the allowable costs for groundwater monitoring facilities is
                  decided on a case-by-case basis and depends on the size and complexity of
                  the project and the present and potential future use of the groundwater.

     (2)   Unallowable costs include:

           (a)    The costs of solutions to aesthetic problems, including design details
                  which require expensive construction techniques and architectural features
                  and hardware, that are unreasonable or substantially higher in cost than
                  approvable alternatives and that neither enhance the function or
                  appearance of the treatment works nor reflect regional architectural
                  tradition.

           (b)    The cost of land acquired for the mitigation of adverse environmental
                  effects identified pursuant to an environmental review.

H.   Publicly Owned Onsite Systems

     (1)   Allowable costs include:

           (a)    The cost of major rehabilitation, upgrading, enlarging, and installation of
                  onsite systems.

                  Major rehabilitation may include the demolition and removal of an
                  existing privately or publicly owned onsite system in accordance with
                  Section C.(1)(h)(i) of this appendix.

           (b)    Collection or service lines to an offsite treatment unit which serves a
                  cluster of buildings.

           (c)    The cost of restoring individual system construction sites to their original
                  condition.

     (2)   Unallowable costs include:



                                          404
