                                      APPENDIX B

                           State Environmental Review Process
                   [For Projects Defined Under Section 212 of the Act]

A.   Facilities Plan Description of Environmental Impacts

     Each project’s facilities plan must contain a comparative evaluation of the no-action
     alternative and the proposed alternative which accounts for the beneficial and adverse
     consequences to the existing and future environmental resources as follows and any
     corresponding mitigative measures necessary to protect these resources:

     (1)    Surface and groundwater resources.
     (2)    Archaeological/historical/cultural resources.
     (3)    Vegetative/wildlife resources.
     (4)    Wetlands and navigable waterways.
     (5)    Floodplains.
     (6)    Coastal zones.
     (7)    Wild and scenic rivers.
     (8)    Air Quality.

B.   Environmental Review

     The information, processes, and premises that influence an environmental determination
     are as follows. The Department will take one or more of the following actions pursuant to
     the review of the facilities plan description of environmental impacts and any comments
     generated by the Intergovernmental Review Agencies:

     (1)    Finding of No Significant Impact on the Environment

            The Department will issue a Finding Of No Significant Impact (FONSI) when,
            based upon review of the facilities plan and any intergovernmental review agency
            comments, it appears that a project will not have a significant adverse
            environmental impact.

     (2)    Environmental Impact Statement

            If the Department determines that the project does not qualify for a FONSI, an
            Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) will be prepared in general conformance
            with EPA regulation 40 CFR Part 6, or as deemed appropriate by the Department.

     (3)    Amendments

            Amendments are occasionally needed to describe changes to proposed facilities
            that have already been described in a FONSI or EIS. The Amendment will



                                            410
