                                        APPENDIX M

                                           Definitions

The following words and terms, when used in this regulation, will have the following meanings,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

(1)    Act – The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251, et. seq.,
       including any amendments.

(2)    Allowable Costs – Those project costs that are eligible, reasonable, necessary, allocable
       to the project, within the established project scope and budget, in conformance with the
       WPCRLF regulations, and determined allowable by the Department.

(3)    Authorized Representative – The signatory agent of the applicant authorized and directed
       by the applicant’s governing body to make application for assistance and to sign
       documents on behalf of the applicant, as required to undertake and complete the project.
       The signatory agent must be a member or an employee of the applicant’s governing body
       and may not be under a separate contract with the applicant at any time during the
       execution of the project.

(4)    Binding Commitment – A WPCRLF loan offer, as described in these regulations.

(5)    Budget Period – The time period beginning on the date established in the loan agreement
       and ending on the date 30 days after the Department’s final construction observation,
       during which allowable costs may be incurred.

(6)    Change Order – The documents, including supporting documentation, executed by the
       loan recipient and the construction contractor, upon recommendation of the engineer if
       required by the contract documents, authorizing a change, alteration, or variance in the
       plans, specifications, and contract documents, including, but not limited to, additions or
       deletions of work to be performed pursuant to the contract or a change in costs or time for
       work performed after execution of the contract.

(7)    Collector Sewer – The common lateral sewers, within a publicly owned treatment system,
       which are primarily installed to receive wastewater directly from facilities which convey
       wastewater from individual systems or from private property.

(8)    Commission – The Mississippi Commission on Environmental Quality or its successors.

(9)    Consolidation Project – The acquisition of an existing entity or its treatment works by
       another or the merger of two entities.

(10)   Construction – Any one or more of the following: erection, building, acquisition,
       alteration, repair, improvement or extension of treatment works.



                                              425
