(11)   Department – The Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality, and its designated
       representatives or successors.

(12)   Eligible Applicant – Any county, municipality, municipal public utility, authority,
       district, political subdivision or other governmental unit created under state law which
       has authority to dispose of domestic wastewater, industrial wastewater, wastewater
       sludges resulting from the treatment of such wastewater, stormwater, or nonpoint sources
       of pollution, has the authority under State law to receive WPCRLF loan assistance, has
       the ability to comply with these regulations and the requirements of the WPCRLF loan
       agreement, and which is not in arrears in repayments to the Water Pollution Control
       Revolving Fund, the Water Pollution Control Emergency Loan Fund, the Water Pollution
       Abatement Loan Fund or any other loan.

(13)   Eligible Costs – Costs in which WPCRLF loan participation is authorized pursuant to
       applicable statute.

(14)   Engineer – Unless otherwise indicated, the engineer, or engineering firm, registered by
       the Mississippi State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land
       Surveyors, retained or employed by the loan recipient to provide professional engineering
       services during the planning, design and/or construction of the project.

(15)   Executive Director – The executive director of the Mississippi Department of
       Environmental Quality or his designee.

(16)   Financial Capability Summary – A financial analysis of a water pollution control system
       to determine whether the system has the capability to reliably meet the financial
       obligations on a long term basis.

(17)   Force Account – Involves the use of the loan recipient’s employees, equipment for
       construction, construction related activities and/or architectural and engineering services.

(18)   Infiltration – Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including sewer
       service connections and foundation drains) from the ground through such means as
       defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manholes. Infiltration does not include, and is
       distinguished from, inflow.

(19)   Inflow – Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including sewer service
       connections) as a result of rainfall or rainfall induced soil moisture from sources such as,
       but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar drains, yard drains, area drains, drains from springs
       and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections between storm sewers and sanitary
       sewers, catch basins, cooling towers, storm waters, surface runoff, street wash waters, or
       drainage. Inflow does not include, and is distinguished from, infiltration.

(20)   Interceptor Sewer – A sewer which is designed for one or more of the following
       purposes:



                                                426
