       (a)    To intercept wastewater from a final point in an existing or proposed collector
              sewer and convey such wastes directly to a treatment facility or another
              interceptor or pump station.

       (b)    To replace an existing wastewater treatment facility and transport the wastes to an
              adjoining collector sewer or interceptor sewer for conveyance to a treatment plant.

       (c)    To transport wastewater, together with quantities of infiltration and inflow that are
              not admitted intentionally, from one or more municipal collector sewers to
              another municipality or to a regional facility for treatment.

       (d)    To intercept an existing discharge of raw or inadequately treated wastewater for
              transport directly to another interceptor, pump station or to a treatment plant.

(21)   Interlocal Agreement – An agreement or contract between the loan applicant/recipient
       and other entities relating to use, enforcement or finances of the project or treatment
       works, which may be necessary to ensure completion and operation, and maintenance of
       a useful project.

(22)   Loan Agreement – A legal and binding agreement between the Department and the loan
       recipient through which the Department provides WPCRLF assistance for eligible and
       allowable costs and the recipient agrees to repay any administrative fees to the
       Department and the principal sum and interest to the WPCRLF over a period and at an
       interest rate established in the loan agreement.

(23)   Loan Applicant – An eligible applicant that applies or intends to apply for financial
       assistance from the WPCRLF program

(24)   Loan Recipient – An eligible applicant that executes a WPCRLF loan agreement.

(25)   Overflows and Bypasses – Polluted water, such as sewage, which overflows or bypasses
       any portion of the treatment works prior to complete and final treatment and discharge in
       accordance with the permit.

(26)   Project – The scope of work for which financial assistance is provided under the
       WPCRLF loan agreement.

(27)   Project Completion – The date of the final construction observation as performed by the
       Department for the purpose of a loan allowability determination.

(28)   Repayment – Administrative fees, principal and interest repayments on WPCRLF loans
       as established in the loan agreement.

(29)   Service Line – A conduit intended to carry wastewater, together with quantities of
       infiltration and inflow that are not admitted intentionally, from residences, public
       buildings and businesses to a collector sewer.


                                              427
