         establishes the provisions of the WPCRLF that are not expected to change from year to year.
         The second document is this annual Intended Use Plan (IUP) which includes a list of projects
         proposed for assistance, information on WPCRLF activities to be supported, criteria and
         methods for disbursing WPCRLF funds, and assurances. Copies of these documents are
         available upon request.

II.      Information on WPCRLF Activities to be supported by the FY- 2020 IUP

         The Commission has determined that the following will apply to the WPCRLF loan program,
         subject to compliance with the WPCRLF loan program regulations:

         a.      Eligible/allowable project costs will include costs as described and limited in
                 Appendix A of the Water Pollution Control Revolving Loan Fund Program
                 Regulations.

      b. The types of assistance to be provided under the WPCRLF loan program will be loans to
      public entities which are authorized under State law to own, operate and maintain the funded
      facilities, to enter into a WPCRLF loan agreement, and to repay the WPCRLF loan; for the
      construction of eligible wastewater treatment and transportation facilities, non-point source and
      storm water pollution control programs, and estuary conservation and management programs.
      Wastewater, as defined by EPA, also includes sludge discharges into surface waters from
      publicly owned drinking water treatment facilities. The Department will continue to offer
      additional subsidy to eligible loan recipients during FY 2020. Detailed guidance on additional
      subsidy can be found in Section VI.D of this IUP. Subsidy funding authorized by WRRDA
      and/or made available through the FY 2015 and subsequent Appropriations Acts will be offered
      as 75% principal forgiveness to small/low income communities and will be subject to the
      affordability criteria outlined in Part 2, Section III.O. of this IUP.

         c.      New loans will be available: 1) at a 0.8% annual interest rate, compounded monthly,
                 at terms not to exceed 20 years after project completion, or 2) at a 1.8% annual
                 interest rate, compounded monthly, at terms of 30 years after project completion,
                 provided the projected useful life of the funded project is at least 30 years.

                 These interest rates and terms, as well as the Small/Low-Income subsidy criteria
                 outlined in Section IV.D., will also be applied retro-actively to all projects funded in
                 FY-19 (October 1, 2018 through September 30, 2019).

      d. WPCRLF loan participation can be funded at up to 100% of eligible project costs, less any
      funding made available from other agencies for these same eligible project costs.

      e. Where funding of a project has been segmented, loan repayment requirements will apply
      after the final construction inspection of the segment of the project that results in an operable
      project, as further described in the WPCRLF regulations. However, interest will accrue on each
      segment independent of other segments as required by the WPCRLF program regulations.

         f.      Project costs incurred prior to loan award will be WPCRLF loan allowable provided:



                                                   434
