     -      The debt is for planning, design, or construction phase professional services
            related to, or for work performed under, an eligible construction contract for
            which the notice to proceed was issued on or after October 1, 2019, and the
            WPCRLF loan is awarded by September 30, 2020.

     -      The project is in compliance with all applicable WPCRLF program
            regulations and obtains Department approval of all applicable documents prior
            to award of the WPCRLF loan.

     -      The prospective loan recipient agrees that by incurring costs prior to loan
            award, it proceeds at its own risk and relieves the Commission, the
            Department, and the Department staff of all responsibility and liability should
            such costs later be determined unallowable for any reason or should such
            funding not become available for any reason.

     -      The prospective loan recipient agrees that by incurring costs prior to loan
            award, no future commitment of funding a project is provided.

g.   Revenue to pay for WPCRLF program administration will be received by setting
     aside up to 4% of the cumulative federal capitalization grants to the State under Title
     VI of the Clean Water Act, and as may be further amended. In addition, an
     administration fee of 5% of the final loan principal will be collected from the interest
     portion of loan repayments on all FY-2020 loans.

h.   Project detail information for the FY-2020 WPCRLF projects is shown in Section V.

i.   The Department has the authority to amend any existing loan agreement (regardless
     of the fiscal year of the initial loan award) in order to: transfer project scope and
     funds from one loan agreement to another loan agreement for the same loan recipient;
     to close out loans with completed project scopes and either delete the remaining
     project scopes that are delayed in violation of the loan schedules, or award a new loan
     for the delayed project scopes; and to award multiple loans for individual portions of
     a project shown on the Priority List.

j.   The Department has the authority to amend any existing loan agreement (regardless
     of the fiscal year of the initial loan award) which was closed (final loan agreement
     executed) on or after July 1, 2015, in order to extend the loan term to a total of thirty
     (30) years after project completion, and to adjust the interest rate accordingly,
     provided the projected useful life of the funded project is at least thirty (30) years.

k.   The Department has the authority to amend any existing loan agreement (regardless
     of the fiscal year of the initial loan award or the date of final loan agreement
     execution) in order to extend the loan term to a total of thirty (30) years after project
     completion, provided the projected useful life of the funded project is at least thirty
     (30) years, and provided the Department determines that, due to force majeure or
     other unforeseen circumstances beyond the loan recipient’s control, loan term
     extension is necessary to ensure complete and timely repayment of the loan. The
     Department may require that supporting documentation (including, but not limited


                                       435
