              to, audit reports, financial capability summaries, user charge systems and ordinances,
              etc.) be submitted for review, prior to making such a determination.

       l.     The FY-2020 Priority List expires on September 30, 2020, except for the authority
              provided in Section II.i above which shall have no expiration date. Projects included
              on the FY-2020 Priority List that do not receive funding by this date will not be
              funded under the FY-2020 funding cycle and will be subject to the requirements of
              the FY-2021 or subsequent Intended Use Plans and Priority Lists.

       m.     State bonds which were provided by the State Legislature to provide state match for
              the federal CWSRF cap grants will be retired with the interest earnings on the fund
              deposits. The estimated amounts of interest earnings to be used for this purpose are
              shown in Appendix A – Assumed Available Funds.

III.   Coordination Schedules with Other Funding Sources on Jointly Funded Wastewater Projects.

       [Note: Due to unavoidable delays in preparation of the FY-2020 IUP, the following
       schedules reflect the typical “standard” schedule, rather than being tailored to fit the
       actual FY-2020 WPCRLF funding schedule.]

       The MDEQ will not award a WPCRLF loan to a jointly funded project until the other funding
       source(s) (i.e., CDBG, ARC, RUS, SPAP, etc.) has provided their award, or until the
       Department receives assurances from the other funding source(s) that their award will be
       made within a timeframe compatible with the WPCRLF loan agreement schedule. If the
       WPCRLF loan is awarded prior to the other funding source award(s), MDEQ may condition
       the WPCRLF award to delay payments until the other award(s) are made.


       A.     Coordination of Water Pollution Control Revolving Loan Fund Program (WPCRLF)
              and Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG) on Jointly Funded



FY- 2020 WPCRLF and CDBG Coordination Project Schedule*



                                 09/01/2019**        Loan applicants submit the complete

                             WPCRLF facilities plan, prepared in accordance with the WPCRLF

                             loan program regulations, to MDEQ. The plan must indicate

                             anticipated CDBG funding and must indicate if the loan applicant

                             intends to proceed with the project; 1) only if CDBG funds are

                             received, or 2) regardless of whether CDBG funds are received.


                                               436
