                     Board for reporting results of monitoring of sludge use or disposal
                     practices.

              (2)    If the permittee monitors any pollutant as prescribed in the permit
                     more frequently than required by the permit using test procedures
                     approved under 40 CFR Part 136 or, in the case of sludge use or
                     disposal, approved under 40 CFR Part 136 unless otherwise
                     specified in 40 CFR Part 503, or as specified in the permit, the
                     results of this monitoring shall be included in the calculation and
                     reporting of the data submitted in the DMR or sludge reporting
                     form specified by the Permit Board.

              (3)    Calculations for all limitations which require averaging of
                     measurements shall utilize an arithmetic mean unless otherwise
                     specified by the Permit Board in the permit.

(16)   Duty to Provide Information

       The permittee shall furnish to the Permit Board, within a reasonable time, any
       information which the Permit Board may request to determine whether cause
       exists for modifying, revoking and reissuing, or terminating the permit or to
       determine compliance with the permit. The permittee shall also furnish to the
       Permit Board upon request, copies of records required to be kept by the permit.

(17)   Inspection and Entry

       The permittee shall allow any authorized Commission representative to enter
       upon the permittee's premises at any reasonable time, to have access to and copy
       any applicable records, to inspect process facilities, treatment works, monitoring
       methods or equipment or to take samples, as authorized by Section 49-17-29 of
       the Code. In the event of investigation during an emergency response action, a
       reasonable time shall be any time of the day or night. Follow-up investigations
       subsequent to the conclusion of the emergency event shall be conducted at
       reasonable times.

(18)   Proper Operation, Maintenance and Replacement

       The permittee shall at all times properly operate, maintain, and when necessary,
       promptly replace all facilities and systems of collection, treatment and control
       (and related appurtenances) which are installed or used by the permittee to
       achieve compliance with the conditions of this permit. Proper operation and
       maintenance includes adequate laboratory controls and appropriate quality
       assurance procedures. Proper replacement includes maintaining an adequate
       inventory of replacement equipment and parts for prompt replacement when
       necessary to maintain continuous collection and treatment of wastewater. This
       provision requires the operation of back-up or auxiliary facilities or similar

                                       44
