                              Priority System for FY-20 Projects

D.   Water Pollution Control Revolving Loan Fund Program Ranking and Funding Rationale

     1. Projects will be ranked on one of the following three Priority lists.

         -       Small/Low Income Communities Priority List – To be ranked on this list a project
                 must meet the definition of projects described in one of the WPCRLF Priority
                 System Categories Three (3) through Eight (8) as outlined in Section IV.E,
                 below; and must serve a community/loan applicant which has a population of
                 4,000 or less and a median household income of $40,000 or less. Projects on this
                 list will be ranked within their respective categories based on the “affordability
                 criteria” outlined in Part II, Section III.O, below.

                 For the purposes of this section, a “community” is generally defined as the entire
                 area within the applicant’s political boundaries (incorporated area, certified area,
                 etc.); however, if a county is the applicant, a clearly defined area within the
                 county which is to be served by the proposed project, and which is not within the
                 political boundaries of any other entity within the county, may be considered the
                 community if determined appropriate and reasonable by the Department.


                 The median household income used in this determination shall be that defined in
                 the ESRI Business Analyst 2019 Demographics and Income Profile (the same
                 source which previously published the Community Sourcebook of Zip Code
                 Demographics, historically used for such determinations in the WPCRLF
                 Program).


                 Projects ranked on this Priority List will be eligible to receive loan subsidy in the
                 form of principal forgiveness equal to 75% of the total loan amount. After bids
                 are received the subsidy amount will be adjusted, to reflect 75% of the amount
                 resulting from subtraction of any included construction contingency from the
                 total as-bid loan amount, provided adequate subsidy remains available for any
                 needed loan increases. Notwithstanding the above-described subsidy percentage,
                 the cumulative subsidy provided to any single recipient for projects ranked on
                 this Small/Low Income priority list shall not exceed $2,000,000.


                 To insure that the “small/low income communities” have a dedicated source of
                 loan funds and will not have to compete with larger/higher income communities
                 for funding, the Department is setting aside $18.4 million in available funds for
                 qualifying projects in small/low income communities. However, subsidy fund
                 availability for these projects will be limited as described in Section IV.D.6. Any
                 funds not obligated for small/ low income communities by September 15, 2020
                 may be released and made available to any eligible loan recipient on the regular


                                               471
