     -       The term "ready to award" means that all loan application requirements
             established in the program regulations are met, and all documents necessary
             for loan award are approved. If a project cannot reasonably be expected to
             meet the Priority System deadlines, then the project will not be placed on the
             current year priority list, but rather will be placed on the planning list. Loans
             will be awarded for projects within the available funds in the following order:

         a. Projects on the current year priority lists that meet all Priority System
            deadlines will be funded when they are ready to award.

         b. Should any project on the current year priority lists fail to comply with any of
            the deadlines in this Priority System, the funds reserved for said project will
            be released and made available to projects on the current year priority list that
            are ready to award, on a first-come first-served basis.

         c. If it becomes apparent that the projects on the current year’s priority lists will
            not utilize all assumed available funds by the end of the current fiscal year,
            projects on the planning list that are ready to award will be funded from these
            remaining funds on a first-come, first-served basis.

         d. Should less than the assumed funds become available, projects shown for
            funding in the current fiscal year that are ready to award will be funded as
            described above within the available funds.

         e. Should more than the assumed funds become available from loan decreases,
            early loan payoffs, or other sources, these funds may be used for loan
            increases, to increase project amounts shown for funding in the current fiscal
            year, and/or to fund projects on the planning list that are ready to award, as
            determined appropriate by the Department.

         f. Subsidy funds will be awarded as described in Section IV.D.6.

3.   Coordination With Mississippi Basin Management Approach

     Recognizing that the health and welfare of Mississippians, wildlife, fish and other
     aquatic life are directly affected by the quality of Mississippi’s waters, the
     Department began implementing the Basin Management Approach (BMA) in 1998.
     The BMA is a collaborative, interagency initiative designed to improve and maintain
     the quality of our water resources through comprehensive long-range water quality
     planning and management strategies. The BMA includes planning, data gathering,
     data assessment, Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL) development, development of
     watershed management plans, and watershed project implementation.

     In order to support the worthwhile goals of the BMA, higher ranking will be given to
     projects identified by the Basin Management Branch that implement watershed
     management plans to address water body impairments. These high priority BMA
     projects will be ranked at the beginning of each Priority Category beginning with the
     Raw Discharge Category through the Existing Facilities Upgrade (Meeting Final
     Limits) Category. If a Priority Category is divided into various subcategories, these

                                       473
