     If more than one high priority BMA project is ranked in a priority category, these
     projects will be moved to the beginning of that category and or subcategory and will
     be ranked in accordance with the Priority System.

4.   WPCRLF Loans to Match EPA Special Appropriations Projects (SPAPs)

     On August 16, 2001 EPA issued a class deviation from the provisions of 40 CFR
     35.3125(b)(1). This class deviation will allow the non-federal, non-state match
     WPCRLF funds to be used to provide loans that can be used as local match for SPAP
     grants awarded to construct water pollution control projects.

     These non-federal, non-state match WPCRLF loan funds will be made available to
     eligible SPAP grant recipients that are on the current year priority list for use as local
     match funds for their SPAP grants, provided the SPAP grant is for WPCRLF loan
     eligible work. Such projects will be funded in accordance with the Priority System,
     and until all non-federal, non-state match monies have been obligated or demand for
     such funds has been met.

5.   Loan Increase Reserve

     Beginning in FY-2001 the Department began making loan awards after approval of
     the facilities plan and loan application rather than after completion of design. This
     change in the loan award sequence increases the likelihood that bid overruns may be
     greater than the construction contingency included in the loan agreement, and that
     additional loan funds may be needed to ensure that these projects are completed. In
     order to provide needed loan increases to existing loans, the Commission intends to
     set aside the amounts identified in Appendix A for such loan increases to be awarded
     on a first-come, first-served basis. Any funds not obligated for this purpose by the
     end of the fiscal year may be made available for new loans ready for award on a first-
     come, first-served basis from either the Priority List or the Planning List.

     If these loan increase reserve funds are exhausted during the year, and additional
     funds are needed for loan increases to cover bid overruns or other project cost
     increases to ensure that on-going projects are completed, the Department may use
     funds recovered from loan decreases or other sources during the year to fund such
     needed loan increases.

6.   Subsidy Increase Reserve

     Due to the limited nature of subsidy funding, an amount of $600,000 will be reserved
     until September 1, 2020, for making subsidy increases after bids to subsidy-eligible
     projects funded prior to FY-2020. The total amount of subsidy resulting from any
     such increase shall be limited as outlined in Section IV.D.1. Any available subsidy
     funds not reserved, or obligated for such increases by September 1, 2020, may be
     made available first for subsidy-eligible projects funded in FY-19 which did not
     already receive subsidy, then for funding new subsidy-eligible projects in priority
     order on the FY-20 “Small Low Income” Priority List, as outlined in Section IV.D.1.



                                       475
