             The Permit Board will normally require the applicant/permittee to
             provide the necessary information.

(b)   The Regional Administrator (or his/her designee) may require monitoring
      requirements for reporting and recording of monitoring results contained
      in 40 CFR 122.48 which are incorporated herein and adopted by reference.

(c)   A discharge authorized by an NPDES permit which the Regional
      Administrator (or his/her designee) by written request to the Executive
      Director, requires to be monitored or which contains toxic waste
      constituents for which an effluent standard or limitation has been
      established by the Administrator of EPA pursuant to Section 307(a) of the
      Federal Act, shall be monitored by the permittee for any or all of the
      following:

      (1)    The measurement of the discharge in gallons per day or other units
             specified by the Permit Board.

      (2)    Waste constituents subject to reduction or elimination under the
             terms and conditions of the permit.

      (3)    Specific waste constituents which are determined by the Permit
             Board to have a significant effect on the quality of the water of the
             State.

      (4)    Waste or wastewater constituents specified as subject to
             monitoring by the Administrator of EPA in regulations
             promulgated pursuant to the Federal Act.

      (5)    Any other specific waste constituents which the Regional
             Administrator (or his/her designee) may request in writing to be
             monitored.

(d)   Test procedures for the analysis of pollutants shall conform to regulations
      published pursuant to Section 304(h) of the Federal Water Pollution
      Control Act, as amended.

(e)   Samples and measurements taken as required herein shall be
      representative of the volume and nature of the monitored wastewater.

(f)   The frequency of monitoring of a waste discharge required to be
      monitored pursuant to this regulation shall be specified in a State, UIC, or
      NPDES permit when issued, except that the Permit Board at any time may
      require additional monitoring for purposes of determining compliance by
      so notifying the permittee in writing.

                               48
