            Priority List, or if the change is made after adoption of the Intended Use Plan, funds
            reserved for this project may be released and made available to other projects.


        2. By May 1, 2020*, a completed WPCRLF loan application and all associated documents
           required by the WPCRLF regulations and the “Guidance For Water Pollution Control
           Revolving Loan Fund Projects Funded Beginning Federal FY 2016 (October 1, 2015 and
           After)” must be submitted to MDEQ. Prior to preparing these documents the loan
           recipient and/or consulting engineer should request and attend a pre-application
           conference. This deadline must be met to be able to qualify for the Previous Year
           Standby Category in the FY-21 IUP.

        3. By August 1, 2020 all approvable documents and responses to Department comments
           necessary for loan award must be submitted to the Department for review and approval.
           This deadline must be met to be able to qualify for the Previous Year Standby Category
           in the FY-21 IUP. Projects on the Planning List or projects on the current year list that
           had their funds released should also meet this deadline in order to allow for Department
           reviews/approvals necessary for loan award prior to the end of the fiscal year.

        4. By September 15, 2020 any “Small/Low Income” or “Green Project Reserve” funds that
           have not been awarded to a project may be released and made available to any project
           that is ready for loan award on a first-come, first-served basis.

            (*Note: Due to unavoidable delays in preparation of the FY-20 IUP, and adequate
            funds availability, projects for which this deadline was not met, but which may
            proceed to become ready for award before the end of the FY, have also been
            included on the FY-20 Priority List, provided that their inclusion did not adversely
            impact funding for any projects which met the deadline.)

G.      Priority Point Formula for Existing Facilities (Not Meeting Final Limits) Category
        Projects.

     1. Priority points for these projects will be calculated using the following formula for each
     stream classification impacted:


        Priority Points =       (Stream Classification Factor)
                                                         X
                                          (Existing Water Quality Problem Factor)
                                                         X
                                          (Achievement of Stream Use Factor)

                Calculation of Factors:

                a.      Stream Classification Factor - Factors will be assigned as follows based on
                        the type of stream that the present wastewater discharge impacts:
                        Stream Classification                                   Factor


                                                   481
