     Ephemeral                                                1
     Fish & Wildlife (Q10/7 > 0)                              5
     Recreation                                               15
     Shellfish Harvesting                                     25
     Public Water Supply                                      30

     Stream classifications for all bodies of water within the State have been
     established and adopted by the Commission on Environmental Quality as part
     of the State Water Quality Standards.

     Recreational waters are those which have been classified as such by the
     Commission.

b.   Existing Water Quality Problem Factor - Factors will be assigned based on the
     extent of the water quality problem presently caused by the existing
     wastewater discharge. The Dissolved Oxygen Problem Factor, the Public
     Health/ Bacteria Problem Factor, the Ammonia Toxicity Problem Factor, and
     the Chlorine Toxicity Problem Factor will be added to arrive at the total
     Existing Water Quality Problem Factor.

     Water Quality Problem Factor = D. O. Problem Factor + Public
     Health/Bacteria Problem Factor + Ammonia Toxicity Problem Factor +
     Chlorine Toxicity Problem Factor + 1 (if a minimum of secondary treatment
     is not presently provided).

     i.      Dissolved Oxygen Problem Factor - This factor will be determined
             by use of the BOD, and flow values specified in the present
             limitations of the NPDES permit, unless significantly different from
             present effluent characteristics. These limitations will be entered into
             the standard wasteload allocation formula and a minimum dissolved
             oxygen concentration in the stream will be predicted for the existing
             wastewater discharge. The dissolved oxygen deficit is the difference
             between the dissolved oxygen standard, which is normally 5.0 mg/l,
             and the predicted minimum dissolved oxygen in the stream.

             This dissolved oxygen deficit is then multiplied by the stream miles
             (or equivalent stream miles) which presently have a dissolved oxygen
             concentration below the designated standard to obtain the Dissolved
             Oxygen Problem Factor as shown below:

             Dissolved Oxygen Problem Factor = (D.O. deficit) x (Stream or
             Equivalent Stream miles below standard)

             In order to rank all projects (on both inland and estuary waters)
             together, it is necessary to develop a relationship between stream
             miles impacted and estuary waters impacted. The term "equivalent
             stream miles" has been developed for estuaries based on the premise
             that the surface area of a body of water most directly represents the
             value of the water body in terms of a fisheries resource, recreational

                               482
