VI.        FY-2020 Assumed Available Funds

      A.   Federal Funds

           In developing this Intended Use Plan the Department has used the actual FY-20 Title
           VI Clean Water SRF appropriations of $1,638,826,000, based on EPA’s FY-20
           allotment notification.

           Per Section B.5 of the Operating Agreement between the Mississippi Department of
           Environmental Quality and the Environmental Protection Agency, Region IV the cash
           draw ratio is 83.3% federal funds and 16.7% state funds.

      B.   State Match Funds

           The State normally receives its 20% state match from direct appropriation or state
           general obligation bonds appropriated by the state legislature, and from interest
           earnings on state match deposits. During the Spring 2020 regular legislative session,
           the Legislature provided bond authorization in the amount of $2,830,000 to be used
           for state match funds. This will match the remainder of the FY-20 capitalization
           grant. It is expected that the bond proceeds will be deposited into the WPCRLF in
           the first quarter of FFY-2021.

           The Legislature will require that these state bonds be retired with the interest portion
           of loan repayments and interest earnings on the fund deposits. The Department will
           set aside a portion of the interest earnings from loan repayments and interest earnings
           on fund deposits and will use these funds to make semi-annual payments to the
           Mississippi State Treasurer’s Office. These semi-annual payments will be used to
           retire the bonds and pay interest on the outstanding bonds. The amounts of interest
           repayments and earnings set aside for this purpose will be shown on Appendix A –
           Assumed Available Funds in the FY-2021 IUP.

      C.   WPCRLF Loan Repayments

           In FY-20 the Department plans to make available for obligation, projected WPCRLF
           loan repayments (from existing closed loans) through September, 2020.




                                            486
