          For FY 2020 SRF Cap Grant: (See Appendix B).

                  Outlay                    Federal                        Cumulative
                  Quarter                 Outlay Amount                   Outlay Amount

                  2Q FY-22                  $ 14,317,000                   $ 14,317,000


IX.       Certifications

          1.      The State certifies that all treatment works for funding under this Intended Use Plan
                  are or will be in compliance with Section 205(j), 319 and/or 320 planning and that all
                  non-point source control and estuarine projects are or will be consistent with planning
                  under Sections 319 and/or 320.

          2.      The State certifies that it will make an annual report to the Regional Administrator on
                  the actual use of funds and how the State has met the goals and objectives for the
                  previous fiscal year as identified in the IUP; and to annually have conducted an
                  independent audit of the fund to be conducted in accordance with generally accepted
                  government accounting standards.

          3.      The State certifies that this Intended Use Plan has been subjected to public review
                  and comment prior to final submission to EPA.

      4. The State certifies that all wastewater facility projects in this Intended Use Plan are on the
      project Priority List developed pursuant to the requirements of Section 216, CWA.

          5.      The State certifies that it will enter into binding commitments for 120% of the
                  amount of each payment (LOC) under the capitalization grant within one year after
                  receipt of each payment (LOC).

          6.      The State certifies that it will expend all funds in the WPCRLF in an expeditious and
                  timely manner.

          7.      The State certifies that all wastewater facilities in the State are in compliance with
                  enforceable requirements or are making progress toward meeting those requirements.

          8.      The State certifies that it will conduct environmental reviews on treatment works
                  projects in accordance with the State environmental review process.

          9.      The State certifies that all POTWs listed on the national Municipal Policy List are
                  either in compliance with their final limits, have an enforcement action filed against
                  them, or have a funding commitment during or prior to the first year covered by this
                  IUP.




                                                    488
