     MDEQ Project Manager will complete this review in accordance with the FY 2015
     Operating Procedure for FPPA. Once complete, copies of the compliance documentation
     will be provided to the Loan Recipient/Consultant for their planning files.

D.   Environmental Review {WRRDA Section 5002(1)}:

     All WPCRLF projects must now comply with 40CFR35.3140(b) {Tier 1 “NEPA-like”
     review}. Therefore, in addition to (or in lieu of) the requirements of Appendix B of the
     WPCRLF Regulations and Sections VI.C, VIII.B, and VIII.C, of the Facilities Plan
     Checklist, the following will be required:

     1. The comparative evaluation of alternatives in the facilities plan must also include any
        sensitive environmental issues that are identified during management of the project or
        through public participation.

     2. A public hearing must be held for ALL projects. Topics to be discussed at the
        hearing include the facilities to be built, why they are needed, where they will be
        built, how much they will cost, the average monthly user charge, and the
        environmental impact. The facilities plan must include proof that notice of the
        hearing was published in a newspaper of general circulation in the project area at least
        30 days prior to the hearing date. The plan must also include minutes from the
        hearing, including any public comments.

     When the facilities plan is approvable, the MDEQ Project Manager will prepare the
     appropriate environmental document (Categorical Exclusion, Finding of No Significant
     Impact/Environmental Assessment, Environmental Impact Statement, etc.) for the project
     in accordance with MDEQ’s “FY 2015 Operating Procedure for Environmental Review.”
     Note that this is a deviation from Appendix B of the existing WPCRLF Regulations, and
     any necessary variances will be provided through each loan agreement in accordance
     with the variance procedures in the Regulations.

E.   Fiscal Sustainability Plan {WRRDA Section 5003(2)}:

     All WPCRLF loan recipients must now certify that they have developed and implemented a
     Fiscal Sustainability Plan (FSP) that includes:

     1.     An inventory of critical assets that are a part of the treatment works;
     2.     An evaluation of the condition and performance of inventoried assets or asset groupings;
     3.     A certification that the recipient has evaluated and will be implementing water and
            energy conservation efforts as part of the plan; and
     4.     A plan for maintaining, repairing, and, as necessary, replacing the treatment works and a
            plan for funding such activities.

     A Fiscal Sustainability Plan (FSP) Certification must be submitted with the loan
     application package indicating that the Loan Recipient has either 1) already developed
     and implemented an FSP or 2) will do so by the date established in the loan agreement which
     represents 90% of construction completion. If the latter, a corresponding follow-up FSP
     Certification will be required by that same 90% construction completion date.


                                              491
