                           orally within 24 hours from the time the permittee becomes aware
                           of the circumstances. A written submission shall also be provided
                           within 5 days of the time the permittee becomes aware of the
                           circumstances. The written submission shall contain a description
                           of the noncompliance and its cause; the period of noncompliance,
                           including exact dates and times, and if the noncompliance has not
                           been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and
                           steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and/or prevent
                           recurrence of the noncompliance.

                   (2)     The following shall be included as information which must be
                           reported within 24 hours under this paragraph.

                           (i)     Any unanticipated bypass which exceeds any effluent
                                   limitation in the permit.

                           (ii)    Any upset which exceeds any effluent limitation in the
                                   permit.

                           (iii)   Violation of a maximum daily discharge limitation for any
                                   of the pollutants listed by the Permit Board in the permit to
                                   be reported within 24 hours.

                   (3)     The Executive Director may waive the written report on a case-by-
                           case basis for reports under paragraph (e).(2) of this rule if the oral
                           report has been received within 24 hours.

            (f)    Other noncompliance. The permittee shall report all instances of
                   noncompliance not reported under A.29.e. of this Rule, at the time
                   monitoring reports are submitted or within 30 days from the end of the
                   month in which the noncompliance occurs. The reports shall contain the
                   information listed in A.29.(e)(1) of this Rule.

            (g)    Other information. Where the permittee becomes aware that it failed to
                   submit any relevant facts in a permit application, or submitted incorrect
                   information in a permit application or in any report to the Permit Board, it
                   shall promptly submit such facts or information.

     (30)   Testing Procedures for the Analysis of Pollutants for All Permits

            Testing procedures include those set forth in 40 CFR 136 which is incorporated
            herein and adopted by reference or alternative procedures approved and/or
            promulgated by EPA.

B.   State Permits Issued to a POTW or NPDES Permits Issued to a POTW



                                             50
