Black River Basin would be numbered 1146, subwatershed 74 located in the Pascagoula River
Basin would be numbered 4074.) The final two digits in the six-digit water body identification
number refer to a specific stream segment within the specified subwatershed. For instance,
Beaver Creek, water body ID 521413, is stream segment 13 in subwatershed 214 in the Pearl
River Basin.


E. Basin Maps

Maps are included in Appendix A for each basin. Streams shown in blue are the impaired stream
segments. In some river basins, the maps were split into 8-digit Hydrologic Unit Codes to better
fit the page.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.



RULE 9.6 CHANGES MADE FOR 2020
Table 3 provides the changes proposed for 2020 including completed TMDLs since 2018, the
monitored streams that are delisted because they are now fully supporting, and other changes
made to the list. In addition, the federal NTTS TMDL tracking information are provided. The
National TMDL Tracking System (NTTS) number is provided by EPA after the TMDL is
finalized and approved. This becomes the identification number for that TMDL report. Full
supporting documentation for delisting decisions is available on our website at:

https://www.mdeq.ms.gov/water/surface-water/tmdl/delistings

For a more detailed description of the data and assessment steps taken, please refer to the state's
§305(b) report. This report to Congress reviews all of the data collected and reports results both
attaining and non-attaining on the states waters.


Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.


A. Pollutant Change

A listing of Biological Impairment indicates that the waterbody is not fully supporting its aquatic
life use. For these waterbodies, a Stressor Identification is required to determine the probable
primary cause(s) of the impairment. In many cases the stressor is determined and a TMDL is
immediately developed. However, if the Stressor Identification and TMDL approval do not fall
in the same listing cycle a pollutant change is required. The waterbodies in Table 3 below have
been subject to a Stressor Identification and will require a TMDL for the prescribed pollutant in
the future.

                                                11
