              prescribed by the Commission, and shall be issued, upon concurrence by the
              Permit Board, an NPDES Permit in accordance with 40 CFR 122.23.

       (4)    All facilities that perform concentrated animal feeding operations that do not meet
              the federal regulatory requirement of 40 CFR Part 122.23 shall submit a treatment
              design worksheet from the Soil Conservation Service or other approvable waste
              disposal system design. Said design and request for site inspection shall
              constitute an application for an animal waste disposal permit or for coverage
              under a general permit.

       (5)    The Department shall perform a site inspection prior to presenting the application
              for consideration to the Permit Board or granting coverage under a general permit.
              The inspection will determine compliance with siting criteria set forth in Rule
              1.1.1.C.2.

       (6)    At reissuance, all facilities shall demonstrate that their wastewater treatment
              facility satisfies the original design capacity.

       (7)    General permits may be developed for concentrated animal operations.

D. State No Discharge Permit Issued to a Domestic Wastewater Treatment Facility with a
Capacity of 1500 Gallons per Day or Less or NPDES Permits Issued to a Domestic
Wastewater Treatment Facility with a Capacity of 1500 Gallons per Day or Less:

As part of the conditions for issuing and/or reissuing a wastewater treatment permit for domestic
wastewater treatment facilities of 1500 gpd or less, the following shall be applicable:

       (1)    Aerobic mechanical treatment plants to be used in this State must meet the
              current revision of American National Standards Institute/National Sanitation
              Foundation (ANSI/NSF) International Standard No. 40 requirements for Class I
              plants and be listed by the Mississippi State Department of Health in accordance
              with Miss. Code Ann. ยง 41-67-10, which is incorporated herein and adopted by
              reference.

       (2)    The following requirements shall be standard conditions for these permits.

              (a)     All aerobic mechanical plants and subsurface systems must be installed by
                      a professional engineer registered in Mississippi or a person who holds a
                      license from the Mississippi State Department of Health pursuant to Miss.
                      Code Ann. ยง41-67-25, as amended, which is incorporated herein and
                      adopted by reference.

              (b)     All aerobic mechanical plants must be adequately inspected at a frequency
                      as specified in the permit, by an individual holding a Mississippi
                      Wastewater Operators Certificate. The owner of the mechanical plant
                      must provide a copy of the inspection report to the State, along with a

                                               52
