C. Alternative Action Plans (Category 5 alt, Category 4B, Category 4C)

EPA’s current vision for the Clean Water Act 303(d) program provides a more updated and
collaborative framework for implementation of the program. In particular, it encourages focusing
attention on priority waters and acknowledges states have flexibility in using available tools
beyond TMDLs to attain water quality restoration and protection. In the Integrated Reporting
Guidance (IRG) issued in 2016, EPA acknowledged the most effective method for achieving
water quality restoration or protection may be through controls developed and implemented in
advance of a TMDL. The IRG specifically defined the sub-category 5-alt in which actions are
taken in advance of a TMDL may be more effective than a TMDL in achieving the goal of
attaining water quality necessary to support a designated use for impaired waters. If an
alternative approach does not show progress in achieving water quality improvement the
impaired segment will be reprioritized for TMDL development. The waters listed as 5-Alt in
Table 5 below have been the focus of a collaborative effort between MDEQ and the Natural
Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) as part of the National Water Quality Initiative that
assess sources, loadings, and success measures necessary to achieve water quality standards.

IRG also provides and explanation of Category 4C. A water may be placed in Category 4C if
data indicate that at least one designated use is not being met, but the impairment is not caused
by a pollutant, but by pollution. For example, aquatic life use is not supported due to hydrologic
alteration or habitat alteration. Turkey Creek is being assigned to Category 4C due to hydrologic
alteration that has resulted in a drastically reduced drainage area. More information is available
in delisting package that can be found at the link listed above.



Table 5. Alternative Action Plans (5-Alt, 4C)
            Water     Water
 Basin
             Body     Body     County       Pollutant   Category                   Location
            Name       ID
Yazoo     Clear                                                    From Headwaters to confluence with
River     Creek      904611    Lafayette   Sediment      5-Alt     Hudson Creek
Yazoo     Hudson                                                   Near Sardis from Headwaters to mouth at
River     Creek      904612    Lafayette   Sediment      5-Alt     Clear Creek

Yazoo     Medlock                                                  From Headwaters to Mouth at North Tippah
River     Branch     902514    Tippah      Sediment      5-Alt     Creek
          North                                                    From Headwaters to confluence with
Yazoo     Tippah     902512,                                       Medlock Branch, From Medlock Branch to
River     Creek      902515    Tippah      Sediment      5-Alt     mouth at Tippah River
          South
Yazoo     Tippah
River     Creek      902513    Tippah      Sediment      5-Alt     From headwaters to mouth at Tippah River
Coastal   Turkey                           Biological              From confluence with Canal Number 2 to
Streams   Creek      202211    Harrison    Impairment     4C       HWY 49 bridge

The 2008 IRG provided additional guidance on assigning waters to Category 4B. This guidance
recognized that alternative pollution control measures may obviate the need for a TMDL.
Specifically, segments are not required to be included on the 303(d) List if “other pollution
                                                 15
