                     description of corrective actions taken if such actions were needed.
                     Alternatively, the owner may have such inspections and reports completed
                     by an authorized and trained representative of the mechanical plant
                     manufacturer.

E.     Administration of State General Permits and NPDES General Permits

       (1)    Any facility and/or discharger covered or eligible to be covered under a general
              permit may be required to obtain an individual State or NPDES permit at the
              discretion of the Permit Board. Any interested person may petition the Permit
              Board to take action under this paragraph.

       (2)    Any facility and/or discharger covered by a State general permit or an NPDES
              general permit may request to be excluded from such coverage by applying for an
              individual State or NPDES permit. The applicability of the general permit is
              automatically terminated upon issuance of an individual permit.

       (3)    Any facility and/or discharger excluded from coverage under a general permit
              solely because it is already covered under an individual State or NPDES permit
              may request that the individual permit be revoked and that it be covered by the
              general permit. If coverage under the general permit is to be approved, the Permit
              Board or its designee may revoke the individual permit and issue coverage under
              the general permit simultaneously.

F.     NPDES Permits Only

An NPDES permit shall contain the following:

       (1)    Reopener Clause. The permit shall be modified, or alternately, revoked and
              reissued, to comply with any applicable effluent standard, limitation or storm
              water regulation issued or approved under Section 301(b)(2)(C), and (D),
              304(b)(2), 307(a)(2), and 402(p) of the Federal Act if the effluent standard,
              limitation, or regulation so issued or approved:

              (a)    contains different conditions or is otherwise more stringent than any
                     effluent limitation in the permit; or

              (b)    controls any pollutant not limited in the permit.

       (2)    Point Source Discharges: Standards of Performance.

              (a)    Any new source subject to an NPDES permit which meets the applicable
                     effluent new source standards of performance as required by the Federal
                     Act, the State law or this regulation, shall not be subject to any more
                     stringent standard of performance for any wastewater constituent during a
                     10-year period beginning on the date of completion of construction or

                                               53
