           applicable Best Management Practices or portions of the Pollution Prevention
           Plan, the Pollution Prevention Plan must refer to the appropriate section of the
           Soil Conservation Service plan. If the pollution prevention plan contains
           reference to the Soil Conservation Service plan, a copy of the Soil Conservation
           Service plan must be kept on site.

     (3)   Best Management Practices.

           Animal waste NPDES permits shall contain Best Management Practices (BMPs)
           at least as stringent as NRCS Manual and all future amendments.

     (4)   Pollution Prevention Plans.

           A pollution prevention plan shall be developed for each facility covered by the
           permit. Pollution prevention plans shall be prepared in accordance with good
           engineering practices and should include measures necessary to limit pollutants in
           runoff. The plan shall describe and ensure the implementation of practices which
           are to be used to assure compliance with the limitations and conditions of the
           permit. The plan shall identify a specific individual(s) at the facility who is
           responsible for developing the implementation, maintenance, and revision of the
           pollution prevention plan. The activities and responsibilities of the pollution
           prevention personnel should address all aspects of the facility's pollution
           prevention plan.

           (a)    Where a Soil Conservation Service plan has been prepared for the facility,
                  the pollution prevention plan may refer to the Soil Conservation Service
                  plan when the Soil Conservation Service plan documentation contains
                  equivalent requirements for the facility.

           (b)    The plan shall be signed by the owner or other signatory authority and be
                  retained on site. The plan shall be updated as appropriate.

     (5)   Preventive Maintenance.

           The plan shall include an appropriate schedule for preventative maintenance.
           Operators will provide routine maintenance to their control facilities in
           accordance with a schedule and plan of operation to ensure compliance with the
           permit. The permittee shall keep a maintenance log documenting that preventative
           maintenance was done. A preventive maintenance program shall involve
           inspection and maintenance of all runoff management devices (cleaning
           separators, catch basins) as well as inspecting and testing facility equipment and
           containment structures to uncover conditions that could cause break downs or
           failures resulting in discharges of pollutants to surface waters.

I.   Storm Water NPDES General Permits Only



                                           56
