             within five (5) miles of the wellbore, an underground source of
             drinking water.

      (2)    Other municipal and industrial disposal wells (including
             radioactive waste disposal wells) which inject fluids beneath the
             lowermost formation containing, within five (5) miles of the well
             bore, an underground source of drinking water.

(b)   Class II. Wells which inject fluids:

      (1)    Which are brought to the surface in connection with natural gas
             storage operations, or conventional oil or natural gas production
             and may be commingled with waste waters from gas plants which
             are an integral part of production operations, unless those waters
             are classified as a hazardous waste at the time of injection.

      (2)    For enhanced recovery of oil or natural gas; and

      (3)    For storage of hydrocarbons which are liquid at standard
             temperature and pressure. Notwithstanding parts 3.a. and 3.d. of
             this rule, naturally occurring radioactive material (NORM)
             disposal wells are classified as Class II wells provided they meet
             the specific requirements of the Mississippi State Oil and Gas
             Board for such types of injection wells.

(c)   Class III. Wells which inject for extraction of minerals including:

      (1)    Mining of sulfur by the Frasch process;

      (2)    In-situ production of uranium or other metals. This category
             includes only in-situ production from ore bodies which have not
             been conventionally mined. Solution mining of conventional
             mines such as slopes leaching is included in Class V.

      (3)    Solution mining of salts or potash.

(d)   Class IV.

      (1)    Wells used by generators of hazardous waste or of radioactive
             waste, by owners or operators of hazardous waste management
             facilities, or by owners or operators of radioactive waste disposal
             sites to dispose of hazardous waste or radioactive waste into a
             formation which within five (5) miles of the well bore contains an
             underground source of drinking water.




                               58
