              should be used shall include, but not necessarily be limited
              to, the following:

              (A)    cost; (disposal methods other than injection wells
                     must be used unless unreasonable costs are
                     demonstrated. Marginal costs shall not be a basis
                     for an injection well.);

              (B)    treatment reliability;

              (C)    effluent quality;

              (D)    stream use classification;

              (E)    indirect environmental impacts (e.g. sludge created,
                     energy used, safety, etc.); and

              (F)    any other factor         the   Permit   Board   deems
                     appropriate.

(3)   A person applying for a new Class I permit shall submit a report
      providing a basis for the injection well. The report shall include:

      (i)     a detailed description of the composition of the wastes and
              the manufacturing process(es) and product(s) producing the
              wastes;

      (ii)    treatability studies of alternate forms of waste treatment
              and/or disposal; and,

      (iii)   a detailed explanation of the reasons why each alternative
              disposal method is considered less satisfactory than the
              proposed injection well, taking into consideration the
              factors identified in paragraph b. of this rule.

(4)   A permittee shall continue to investigate alternative treatment
      and/or disposal technologies and shall discontinue deep well
      disposal by a schedule approved by the Department if it is
      determined that these alternative technologies or other
      technologies are feasible and economically practicable.

(5)   Area of review of Class I Wells. Notwithstanding 40 CFR 146.6,
      the area of review for all Class I wells shall not be less than a 2-
      mile radius around the well bore. The Permit Board may specify a
      larger area of review based on the calculated cone of influence of
      the well.

                        60
