(6)   Notwithstanding 40 CFR 146.12, all new Class I wells shall be
      constructed in accordance with 40 CFR 146.65(c).

(7)   Reporting Requirements for Class I Wells.

      (i)     In addition to the requirements of 40 CFR 144.55, an
              applicant for a Class I well permit shall identify the
              location of all known wells within the injection well’s area
              of review which penetrate the injection zone or penetrate to
              within 300 feet of the top of the injection zone. For such
              wells which are improperly sealed, completed, or
              abandoned, the applicant shall submit a corrective action
              plan as required in 40 CFR 144.55. The plan shall be
              updated annually, as necessary, to include any improperly
              sealed, completed, abandoned wells which are identified in
              the annual report required in part 4.(f)(3) of this rule.

      (ii)    In addition to the reporting requirements of 40 CFR 144.51
              (1), the permittee shall report orally to the Department
              within 24 hours of occurrence, the shutdown of any Class I
              well which requires down holes maintenance or repair.
              Excluded from this requirement are normal or expected
              operational shutdowns and maintenance procedures. Oral
              notification shall be followed by written notification within
              5 days of occurrence.

      (iii)   The permittee shall file annually a report on the following
              information, to the extent that such information is
              reasonably available.

              (A)    Locations and depths of newly drilled or newly
                     discovered wells within the area of review which
                     penetrate the injection zone or penetrate to within
                     300 feet of the top of the injection zone, if such
                     wells were not included in any previously submitted
                     report.

              (B)    Tabulation of data on all wells identified pursuant to
                     subparagraph K.(1)of this paragraph, including:

                     (1)     a description of each well’s type,

                     (2)     construction,

                     (3)     data drilled,

                        61
