                      be maintained with adequate cover, such that the effects of erosion are
                      minimized.

              (d)     The permittee shall develop and maintain a daily inspection log for this
                      facility. This log should include but not be limited to the following;
                      condition of all dikes, observance of the area around the dikes to indicate
                      any water pollution problems and the volume of wastewater accumulating
                      within the dike. The date, time and person making the inspection should
                      be included in this log.

       (3)    Sand and Gravel Permits Special Conditions.

              When a mining activity is adjacent to a stream, a buffer zone shall be maintained
              between the edge of the mining activity and the highest point of the top bank of
              the stream. The buffer zone widths shall be the same as those set forth in Rule
              1.3.4.C.3.(a)(1), (2) and (3) of these regulations. The buffer zone shall not be
              disturbed by any of the facility's activities.

P.     State Permits for the Disposal of Contaminated Milk

All facilities and/or individual(s) needing to dispose of milk that has been classified by the
Mississippi State Department of Health as contaminated shall apply for a State permit. As part
of the conditions for issuing a waste disposal permit for contaminated milk, the following shall
be applicable.

       (1)    A contaminated milk disposal plan developed by the Natural Resources
              Conservation Service (NRCS) utilizing NRCS Contaminated Milk Disposal
              Guidelines shall be accepted as an application.

       (2)    The NRCS contaminated milk disposal plan shall become enforceable
              requirements of the permit.

       (3)    The permittee shall notify the Department prior to each application of
              contaminated milk. Notification shall consist of verbal communication prior to
              disposal; followed by written notification within five (5) days.

Q.     State Permits for Aerial Applicator Program

       (1)    Any person engaged in aerial application originating at a landing strip (including
              public and private) within the State for the purpose of chemical aerial application
              shall apply to the Permit Board for a State permit.

       (2)    Terms and Conditions of State Permits for Aerial Applicators are listed below:




                                               66
