              (a)     Utilization of any surface impoundment for the purpose of collection,
                      storage, and/or treatment of chemically contaminated wastewater
                      generated from operations at an aerial applicator facility is prohibited.

              (b)     The discharges of any contaminated hopper low sump wastewater to
                      surface waters or grounds of the facility are prohibited.

              (c)     The discharge of rinse water employed to remove chemical residue from
                      the hopper, spray booms, empty chemical containers, and any other
                      auxiliary equipment requiring frequent washing for chemical removal is
                      prohibited.

              (d)     The Permit Board may require that all used and/or empty chemical
                      containers be removed from the premises within a reasonable time.

              (e)     All empty containers must be triple rinsed prior to disposal in an approved
                      landfill.

              (f)     All bulk chemical storage tanks are subject to Best Management Plans in
                      accordance with A.12 of this Rule.

              (g)     Any connections from a public water supply to any tanks, sumps, etc.,
                      containing pesticides must be made so as to prevent backflow to the
                      potable water system.

              (h)     The Permit Board may require additional terms and conditions it deems
                      appropriate to prevent pollution and/or protect human health, welfare or
                      the environment.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.1.5 Duration, Review and Reissuance, Transfer, Modification, Termination, Revocation,
Enforcement and Property Rights.

A.     Duration of Permit

       (1)    The duration of an NPDES permit shall be established in accordance with 40 CFR
              122.46, which is incorporated herein and adopted by reference. A State permit
              issued pursuant to the State law and this regulation may be issued for a period not
              to exceed five years. A UIC permit shall be issued for a term not to exceed ten
              years. A person who wishes to continue to operate under a permit which expires
              shall apply for reissuance of a permit pursuant to C. of this Rule.

       (2)    All State permits which have an unspecified term or a term exceeding five years,
              shall be reevaluated and may be modified and/or reissued for a period not to
              exceed five (5) years after the date of modification and/or reissuance. Such State

                                               67
