             permits may be revoked unless the permittee demonstrates all of the following:

             (a)    the wastewater treatment facility can treat the amount of waste it was
                    originally designed to treat,

             (b)    the wastewater treatment facility is not accepting more waste than it was
                    originally designed to treat,

             (c)    the terms and conditions of the permit meet the current requirements of the
                    Department, and

             (d)    the facility is in compliance with the permit terms and conditions.

                    The Permit Board may establish a schedule for reevaluation, modification
                    and/or revocation of these permits.

      (3)    Permits are subject to modification, revocation, and/or reissuance for cause at any
             time during the life of the permit.

B.    Review and Reissuance of State, UIC, or NPDES Permits: Requests and Filing
Requirements

      (1)    At least 180 days prior to the expiration date of a State, UIC, or individual
             NPDES permit issued by the Permit Board pursuant to the State law and this
             regulation, a permittee who wishes to continue to operate under such permits
             shall submit an application to the Permit Board for reissuance. The Permit Board
             may grant permission to submit an application later than this, but no later than the
             expiration date of the permit. For NPDES general permits and State general
             permits, the Permit Board will establish in the general permit the schedule for
             resubmission of a NOI.

      (2)    After receipt of an application for reissuance of a State, UIC, or NPDES permit by
             a permittee, the Permit Board shall review the application and before reissuing a
             permit shall be assured that:

             (a)    The permittee is in compliance with or has substantially complied with the
                    terms, conditions, requirements, and schedules of compliance of the
                    existing permit.

             (b)    The Permit Board has up-to-date information on the permittee's production
                    levels, waste treatment practices and the nature, contents and frequency of
                    the permittee's discharge.

             (c)    The discharge is consistent with applicable effluent standards and
                    limitations, water quality standards, and other applicable requirements,
                    including any additions to, revisions or modifications.

                                              68
