       (1)     A person who violates any provision of these regulations, a term, condition or
               schedule of compliance contained within a valid State, UIC, or NPDES permit, or
               the State law is subject to the actions defined in the State law.

       (2)     The Executive Director or his duly authorized designee shall notify the Regional
               Administrator(or his/her designee) of all violations in accordance with the MOA
               regarding NPDES or UIC permits and the means by which the Commission
               proposes to correct or require the correction of such violations in accordance with
               40 CFR 123.45.

       (3)     It shall not be the defense for a permittee in an enforcement action that it would
               have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to maintain
               compliance with the conditions of the permit.

E.     Property Rights, All Permits

A permit issued by the Permit Board does not convey any property rights in either real or
personal property, or any exclusive privileges, nor does it authorize any injury to private property
or any invasion of personal rights, nor any infringement of federal, State, or local laws or
regulations.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.1.6 Noncompliance Lists, Plans and Specifications: Submittal Requirements, and
Severability

A.     Noncompliance Lists

The Executive Director shall prepare and submit to the Regional Administrator (or his/her
designee) any lists of facilities in noncompliance as defined and required in 40 CFR 123.45.

B.     Plans and Specifications: Submittal Requirements

       (1)     Plans and specifications for all proposed municipal and domestic sewage
               collection systems, including modifications and additions thereto, must be
               submitted to and approved by the Department prior to beginning construction of
               the proposed system. With the concurrence of the Department, small privately
               owned domestic collection systems (less than 1,500 gpd) may be allowed to
               submit plans and specifications prepared by a licensed plumber or architect.

       (2)     Except as excluded in Rule 1.1.6.B.5, plans and specifications for all proposed
               treatment works must be submitted to the Department for comment prior to
               beginning construction of the proposed works. In addition, plans and
               specifications for all proposed treatment works for which a Department
               administered grant or loan has been made or is to be requested must be approved
               by the Department prior to commencement of construction.

                                                71
