       (8)     The only permits issued by the Permit Board for wastewater discharges are State
               permits, UIC permits, and NPDES permits. Review and approval of design plans
               and specifications does not constitute authorization to begin construction, and any
               permit applicant who commences construction prior to final Permit Board action
               under Rule 1.1.3.H. builds at his own risk.

       (9)     Plans and specifications shall be developed utilizing fundamental engineering
               principles and approved engineering practices from acceptable engineering
               guidance sources including, but not limited to, Recommended Standards for
               Sewage Works, ("Ten States Standards" and all amendments), text books,
               manuals of practice, technical publications, or other appropriate publications.

       (10)    Plans and specifications that vary from these engineering sources may be
               submitted if the Department determines such plans and specifications are properly
               supported in writing by the consulting engineer. A copy of all plans and
               specifications shall be maintained by the permittee, owner, or operator, whichever
               is responsible for operation and maintenance of the constructed facilities.

       (11)    Any proposed significant changes to approved or submitted plans and
               specifications must be submitted to the Department for approval or comment in
               accordance with 1.1.6.B.1. or 2 of this Rule. Approval of or comment on such
               revised plans and specifications may be secured from the Department either
               before or after construction is initiated, at the discretion of the owner. If the
               owner constructs such changes reflected on the plans and specifications prior to
               securing Department approval or comment, the owner does so at his own risk and
               may be required by the Department to correct any unacceptable changes and/or
               deficiencies.

C.     Severability

If any provision, section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of any of these regulations, or the
application of same to any person or set of circumstances is for any reason challenged or held to
be invalid or void, the validity of the remaining regulations and/or portions thereof or their
application to other persons or sets of circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Subchapter 2: Water Quality Based Effluent Limitations

Rule 1.2.1 Background

The purpose of this rule is to set forth procedures for the determination of limitations to protect
the water quality of the State.

Section 303 of the Federal Act requires the State to develop total maximum daily loads (TMDLs)
for pollutants which will ensure the attainment of water quality standards. Load allocations,

                                                 73
