wasteload allocations and consequent effluent limitations will be developed consistent with the
requirements of Section 303 of the Federal Act and all other applicable State statutes.

Source: Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.2.2 General Requirements.


A.     Applicability

In addition to any technology based surface water effluent limitations required under the
provisions of Rule 1.1.1 of these regulations, all activities and discharges shall also meet water
quality based effluent limitations where necessary to meet water quality standards.

       (1)     A water quality based effluent limitation shall be determined by the Department
               in accordance with this chapter and shall be based upon the characteristics of
               discharge, the receiving water characteristics, the criteria and standards of the
               State's Water Quality Criteria and any other information deemed necessary to
               protect water quality. The applicant may be required to provide the necessary
               information. Requests for zones of mixing and any previously approved zones of
               mixing will be taken into consideration when determining WQBELs. In order for
               a zone of mixing to be provided for any parameter, the applicant must provide the
               necessary characteristics of the discharge either prior to or within a reasonable
               time after the Department has made a request for this information from the
               applicant.

       (2)     The Permit Board may decide not to specify limits in permits required for the
               following:

               (a)     stationary installations created by dredging and/or filling;

               (b)     stationary installations for the discharge of drainage;

               (c)     stationary installations for which best management practices are deemed
                       appropriate; or

               (d)     any other activities the Permit Board deems appropriate.

       (3)     For the activities described in paragraph 2, an applicant shall provide the Permit
               Board with reasonable assurance that the proposed discharge will comply with
               water quality standards. Reasonable assurance may be based upon the following:

               (a)     scientific studies which may include mathematical water quality modeling
                       and/or biological studies; or




                                                 74
