       (2)      Coordinate with the Department to determine the information required, including
                accepted methods of data collection and analyses, and quality control/quality
                assurance requirements.

       (3)      Use this information to help develop a Quality Assurance Project Plan (QAPP), or
                its equivalent. The QAPP must be approved in writing by the Department prior to
                beginning work.

       (4)      Failure to comply with the QAPP may result in the Department’s rejection of
                some or all of the data.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.2.4 Waters Difficult To Model.

A.     Losing flow streams.

Many losing flow streams can and should be modeled to determine effluent limitations. Such
models are only applicable to the point of zero flow.

B.     Lakes.

       (1)      Computerized and/or ecological type models may be used, if appropriate and
                available.

       (2)      For existing discharges, current effluent limits may be appropriate, if ambient
                water quality data indicate water quality standards are met and no nuisance
                conditions associated with the discharge exist.

       (3)      Nutrient budget models may be used to determine if nutrient reductions are
                needed. Nutrient contribution and abatement from both point and nonpoint
                sources shall be considered.

       (4)      Discharges to embayments and coves shall be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
                However, effluent limitations more stringent than TBEL may be required.

       (5)      Diffuser outfalls for discharges to the main body of a lake may be required when
                needed to eliminate localized water quality impacts.

       (6)      Permit limitations for toxicants shall be determined based upon State, and/or EPA
                recognized, procedures and best professional judgment in accordance with
                applicable law.

C.     Natural Wetlands




                                               78
