       (1)     In the absence of site specific water quality standards, effluent limitations for
               discharges to swamps, marshes, bogs, wetlands, etc., shall be determined based
               upon potential or existing physical, chemical, and biological water quality
               impacts.

       (2)     Discharges of sanitary or other oxygen demanding wastewater to natural wetland
               areas must, at a minimum, meet secondary treatment standards.

       (3)     The permittee may be required to monitor biological health of the wetland and the
               water quality of the receiving wetland (pre and post - permitting).

       (4)     No toxic substances shall be discharged in amounts that violate the State's Water
               Quality Standards.

       (5)     For industrial discharges, the ultimate oxygen demand of the wastewater shall
               also be considered when developing permit limitations. Limits equivalent to 30
               mg/l BOD5 or less shall be given to industrial discharges of oxygen demanding
               wastewater to natural wetlands.

D.     Nutrient Enriched Waters.

In case of nutrient enriched waters, data from a water quality field assessment and/or appropriate
models shall be used to determine impact and set effluent limitations.

Source: Miss. Code Ann. §§ 49-2-1, et seq. and 49-17-1, et seq.

Rule 1.2.5 Special Cases.

A.     Effluent Channels.

       (1)     The standards set forth in the State's Water Quality Standards do not apply to
               effluent channels.

       (2)     Water in effluent channels shall be maintained at a quality which shall prevent the
               occurrence of offensive conditions, protect public health, and allow (after mixing)
               maintenance of all standards applicable to all downstream waters.

B.     Ephemeral Streams.

Effluent limits for ephemeral streams shall be established consistent with the State's Water
Quality Standards.

       (1)     Discharges from a POTW must, at a minimum, meet secondary treatment
               requirements. Industrial discharges must at a minimum meet TBELs.




                                               79
