            and human health impact on the receiving stream. Secondly, the Department
            determines whether the data in an application have been submitted in strict
            adherence with EPA accepted analytical procedures with all of the appropriate
            parameters reported.

            The second step involves the development of permit limits in accordance with
            accepted state and national water quality criteria for those facilities exhibiting
            potential toxicity. Permit limits may take the form of chemical specific and/or
            whole effluent toxicity based limits.

            The third step in the process involves additional testing and actual toxicity
            reduction for those facilities which fail any whole effluent toxicity requirements
            included in their permits. Permits addressing whole effluent toxicity have specific
            language requiring the permittee to perform a Toxicity Reduction Evaluation
            (TRE) upon non-compliance with the whole effluent toxicity limitations
            contained in the permit.

B.   Applicability.

     (1)    Chemical Specific Application Data Requirements.

            (a)       These procedures apply to the review of industrial and municipal
                      applications for NPDES permits and pretreatment permits for the
                      permittees which follow:

                      (1)    all primary industries (major and minor);

                      (2)    all major facilities; and

                      (3)    all industrial and municipal facilities for which the application
                             review indicate parameters above accepted quantitation levels.

            (b)       Until such time as the Administrator of EPA promulgates, and the
                      Commission prescribes, an NPDES application form for municipal
                      facilities that addresses section 307(A) toxics, municipalities shall submit
                      as part of their application the appropriate pages from EPA Form 3510-
                      2C. Municipalities shall determine the toxic characteristics of their
                      wastewater by analyzing for the toxic pollutants listed in Table III of
                      Appendix D of 40 CFR 122 which is incorporated herein and adopted by
                      reference.      Metal analysis shall be for total recoverable metals.
                      Additionally, municipalities shall analyze for total hardness (mg/l as
                      CaCO3) and any Section 307(A) toxic listed in an industrial user's
                      pretreatment permit for any industrial category identified in 40 CFR 403,
                      Appendix C which is incorporated herein and adopted by reference.
                      Municipalities shall submit two influent and two effluent samples



                                               81
