             collected each month during the six-month period immediately preceding
             the application submittal deadline date.

(2)   Whole Effluent Toxicity Application Data Requirements.

      (a)    The Whole Effluent Toxicity (WET) test requirements for an application
             for renewal of applicable NPDES permits are set forth in Rule 1.1.2.D.

      (b)    Permittees required to perform WET tests as part of their application
             under Rule 1.2.6.B.2.a shall conduct at least four WET tests in the year
             preceding filing of the application. These tests will include two
             samplings, one during the hot-dry season and one during the cold-wet
             season. If the receiving water salinity is less than 1,000 mg/l then
             freshwater testing organisms shall be used. If the Instream Waste
             Concentration (IWC) at low flow is less than one percent, the permittee
             shall perform 48-hour, static non-renewal, definitive (a control and five
             effluent concentrations) acute WET tests at 25°C using Ceriodaphnia
             dubia (invertebrate) that are less than 24 hours old and a 96-hour, static
             renewal (tests that exceed 48 hours in duration must be renewed),
             definitive acute WET test at 25°C using Pimephales promelas (vertebrate)
             that are less than 24 hours old. If the IWC at low flow is greater than or
             equal to one percent, the permittee shall perform chronic WET tests.
             These shall be definitive static renewal tests at 25°C using Ceriodaphnia
             dubia and Pimephales promelas. Acute tests shall be performed in
             accordance with Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents to
             Freshwater and Marine Organisms, Fourth Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027),
             or most recent edition and chronic tests shall be performed in accordance
             with Short-Term Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of
             Effluents and Receiving Waters to Freshwater Organisms, (EPA/600/4-
             89/001) or most recent edition. If the receiving water salinity is greater
             than or equal to 1,000 mg/l, then saltwater organisms shall be used. If the
             IWC at low flow is less than one percent, the permittee shall perform 48-
             hour, static non-renewal, definitive acute WET tests at 25°C using
             Americamysis (invertebrate) that are 1-5 days old and a 96-hour, static
             renewal, definitive acute WET test at 25°C using Menidia beryllina. If the
             IWC at low flow is greater than or equal to one percent and the receiving
             water salinity is greater than or equal to 1,000 mg/l, the permittee shall
             perform short-term chronic WET tests at 25°C using Americamysis and
             Menidia beryllina. Acute tests shall be performed in accordance with
             Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents to Freshwater and
             Marine Organisms, Fourth Edition, (EPA-600/4-90/027), or most recent
             edition, and chronic tests shall be performed in accordance with Short-
             Term Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and
             Receiving Waters to Marine and Estuarine Organisms, (EPA/600/4-
             87/028), or most recent edition. All of the above mentioned manuals are
             incorporated herein and adopted by reference. MDEQ will allow a six-

                                     82
