               (a)    Purpose and Scope. The purpose of this rule is to set forth procedures
                      used to determine individual storm water permit limits for toxics and
                      conventional parameters. Only storm water associated with industrial
                      activity is considered. Process wastewaters are addressed elsewhere in
                      these regulations. The ultimate goal of setting individual storm water
                      permit limits is to reduce pollutants in storm water runoff in order to
                      protect receiving stream water quality.

               (b)    Methods of Limits Determination. Due to high variability of storm water
                      volume, only concentration limits will be determined by one or a
                      combination of the procedures which follow:

                      (1)    Effluent Limitations Guidelines (ELG);

                      (2)    Water Quality Standards (WQS); and

                      (3)    Best Professional Judgment (BPJ).

               (c)    Wet Weather Flow for Streams with Gaging Stations. For streams with a
                      gaging station, the 7Q2 will be used. The value of the 7Q2 is readily
                      available in the USGS Water-Resources Investigations Report 90-4087,
                      Low-Flow and Flow-Duration Characteristics of Mississippi Streams,
                      1991.

Calculation:

                                                          SWA
                                Q = Site7Q2 = Gage7Q2 *
                                                          GWA
Where:
SWA = Site Watershed Area
GWA = Gage Watershed Area

               (d)    Wet Weather Flow for Other Streams and Industrial Sites.
                      For both small watersheds without gaging data and industrial sites, the
                      stream flow and site runoff will be estimated using the Rational Equation,
                      assuming the average storm event intensity over the entire area. The
                      Rational Equation is:

                                            Q = C*I * A
Where:
Q      = the flow in cfs,
C      = the runoff coefficient,
I      = the rainfall intensity in inches/hour, and
A      = area in acres.



                                               90
