      (3)    The MQL is the lowest concentration at which a particular substance can be
             quantitatively measured, and is defined analytically as the lowest concentration
             used in the calibration of the measurement system.

      (4)    Any sample result reported as "non-detected" or "less than" the MQL shall be
             entered as zero.

             The following language shall be placed in permits:

             If the results for a given sample analysis are such that any parameter (Other than
             fecal coliform, enterococci, e coli) is not detected at or above the minimum level
             for the test method used, a value of zero will be used for that sample in
             calculating an arithmetic mean value for the parameter. If the resulting calculated
             arithmetic mean value for that reporting period is zero, the permittee shall report
             "NODI=B" on the DMR. For fecal coliform and other pollutants that are based
             on calculating a geometric mean, a value of 1.0 shall be used in calculating the
             geometric mean. If the resulting fecal coliform mean value is 1.0, the permittee
             shall report "NODI=B" on the DMR. For each quantitative sample value that is
             not detectable, the test method used and the minimum level for that method for
             that parameter shall be attached to and submitted with the DMR. The permittee
             shall then be considered in compliance with the appropriate effluent limitation
             and/or reporting requirement.

             Permits will specify the appropriate analytical method, based on the appropriate
             sensitivity. Permittees must then report results based on data containing
             acceptable calibration points at least as low as the MQL.

H.    Bioassay Language/Monitoring,

Exhibit "D", which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference, represents the
standard bioassay language placed in NPDES permits for chronic and acute bioassays,
respectively. The fundamentals of the bioassay monitoring requirements are as follows:

      (1)    Duration

             Biomonitoring is for the life of the NPDES permit. Assuming compliance with
             the toxic limits, monitoring is at a frequency of once per quarter for the first
             twelve months for industrial and municipal permittees and semi-annually
             thereafter. The sampling frequency during compliance monitoring shall be at
             least twice per year unless specified otherwise elsewhere in these regulations, and
             sampling shall be timed to include the seasonal extremes of the year (hot-dry and
             cold-wet).

      (2)    Species

             At least two species (one vertebrate and one invertebrate) must be used.

                                             94
