Crime Prevention

Role of DLES in Crime Prevention

The Division of Law Enforcement and Safety (DLES) conducts crime prevention and safety presentations throughout the year to faculty,
staff and students. Additionally, DLES distributes educational and crime prevention materials at display tables during campus events
throughout the year. This also provides opportunities for students to ask questions, register property, and obtain important safety informa-
tion.

The following programs are designed to inform students and employees about the prevention of crimes:

   •   Residential Safety and Security: methods of securing resident living space both on-campus and off-campus and
   the process of reporting suspicious activity and people.
   
   •   Building Safety and Security: methods and procedures for keeping the workplace and classroom safe and the
   process of reporting suspicious activity and persons.
   
   •   Garage/Parking Lot Safety: precautions for preventing theft and vandalism of parked vehicles and risk reduction
   to increase personal safety in and around garages and parking lots.
   
   •   Campus Safety: general and specific methods of personal protection and risk reduction. Identifies areas that are
   safe for the community, identifies tools available to enhance personal safety, and the outlines the process of reporting
   suspicious activity and individuals.
   
   •   Workplace Violence Prevention: identifies the warning signs of potential workplace violence and preventive mea-
   sures.
   
   •   Project ID: offers free engraving for personal and University property. DLES also maintains a database of en-
   graved items.
   
   •   Project S.T.O.P.: offers bicycle registration.
   
   •   Women’s Self Defense Workshops: increases recognition and response to potentially dangerous situations, in-
   creasing confidence in everyday activities and encouraging risk reduction practices. The University’s Sexual Assault
   and Violence Intervention & Prevention (SAVIP) Office has partnered with DLES to offer a Women’s Self Defense
   Workshop. Call 777-8248 to sign up.



To get more information about these programs or to schedule a program, contact the DLES Community Relations Unit at 803-777-
4215.

The DLES Office of Crime Prevention also assists in providing safety education to all incoming freshmen and new students through
University 101 (U101).

DLES assigns police officers to specific campus areas and buildings through the Community Resource Officer Program. Community
Resource Officers (CROs) interact with students and residence life staff, offering direct support from a familiar face, providing educational
programs, serving as mentors. The CROs use community policing and problem solving to address quality-of-life issues and build positive
relationships that help students understand how the resources we offer can help keep them and their property safe.

Residential communities are a priority under the CRO program with CROs assigned to academic and administrative buildings as staffing
allows.These officers build partnerships and improve safety by attending community meetings (residence hall meetings, employee safety
committees, etc.) and by making positive community contacts and disseminating crime trend and safety information. CROs pay special
attention to their assigned communities and actively solicit input and information from community members on perceptions of crime and
safety issues.

Role of Housing Staff in Crime Prevention
It should be noted that violent crime on campus is not common.The most prevalent crime our community experiences is theft. University
Housing advises resident students that they should lock residence hall rooms and that anyone parked on campus should remove valuables
from their vehicles. It is also noteworthy to remember that several facilities around campus are open to the public, like theThomas Cooper
Library; it is not uncommon to see non-students in these areas. Care should be taken in these areas to keep personal property under close
watch.

The following security awareness and training programs are offered by University Housing to train/educate Housing staff and students
residing on campus about campus security procedures and practices and to encourage both employees and students to be responsible for
their own security and the security of others.


Training for Housing Staff
All staff members are required to complete an online training course on Crisis Management and Emergency Procedures. At the end of each
session, employees are required to pass a test on the materials presented.

All Housing Staff members participate in another seminar during formal job training on crisis management and University-specific proce-
dures.

AllHousingStaffmembersparticipateinexperientialsessionswheretheyproblem-solvethroughdifferentsituationsandmustdiscernwhen
to apply the procedures they have learned. Training scenarios include: roommate issues; fire safety; alcohol overdose; suicidal students;
drugs; sexual assault; and medical emergencies.

All Housing Staff members are trained on the emergency and safety protocol and procedures specific to the building where they work. Also
included are the security systems in each area, including cameras and card access devices.

All full-time staff and graduate staff members who live and work in a residence hall are required to complete and pass Incident Command
System (ICS) training offered through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).

All staff members who serve in an emergency response capacity are trained in the Housing duty system.

Housing Staff members are trained on how to identify and report security issues they discover when working within their assigned build-
ings.

Housing Staff members are trained on the Visitation Policy for their specific buildings.


Crime Prevention Education for Residential Students
All residential buildings on campus have an orientation that covers many topics, including campus safety. When students move into
residential halls on campus, each hosts an orientation that addresses campus safety. Residential Hall floors continue to meet during the
academic year to reinforce safety information and discuss new topics and concerns as needed.

Several methods are used to distribute and reinforce information to students to educate them on safety matters. They include: one-on-one
meetings with students; video boards located in residence halls; email blasts sent to students; print newsletters; flyers; programs and activi-
ties; brochures; and room inspections. Housing Staff conduct room inspections in residence halls, during which they check for prohibited
items and look for any health and safety concerns. Traditional dorms are inspected twice a semester by Housing Staff, while apartment-style
residence halls are inspected monthly. Fire extinguishers are checked monthly in apartment style residences.

All students are informed about the Visitation Policy for their specific residence, and held accountable for violations of the policy.

Students who violate Housing policy or who create safety hazards are met with individually to be held accountable for their actions and to
reinforce their roles as responsible members of our Housing and University Community.

Other Crime Prevention Programs

The Office of Professional Development offers a yearly Violence in the Workplace Workshop for faculty and staff and is in the process of
developing new presentations to bring the University in compliance with recent amendments to the Violence Against Women Act.

TheUniversitydoesnothaveanyofficialstudentorganizationsthathavehousingfacilitiesoff-campus.Thereareseveralrecognized student
organizations that occupy privately owned houses within the campus boundaries of GreekVillage; DLES responds to calls for services from
these houses.