 Alcohol And Drug Policies and Programs To Prevent Alcohol and Drug Abuse
 The University of South Carolina treats the abuse of drugs and alcohol as a serious concern. The University is in compliance with the Drug- Free Schools and Communities Act of 1989 and has established the Office of Substance Abuse Prevention and Education (SAPE), under the guidance of the Vice President for Student Affairs and Academic Support.
 The University’s drug and alcohol policy is made available to all interested parties. Students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to read the entire drug and alcohol policies located in the office of the Vice President for Student Affairs and Academic Support and online at “Sub- stancesAbusePreventionandEducation”,locatedathttps://www.sa.sc.edu/sape.Analcoholanddrugeducationandcounselingprogramis also provided. Additional information is available by calling (803) 777-3933.
 The Division of Law Enforcement and Safety (DLES) works closely with the Office of Student Conduct and Academic Integrity (OSC) and SAPE to educate the student population concerning the responsible use of alcohol. Although every situation is different, officers typically refer student violators of the state’s alcohol laws to OSC for counseling and student discipline. Violations of the state’s underage drinking laws may be enforced through filing appropriate criminal charges and are usually handled by OSC with a referral from law enforcement. Violations of drug laws are usually handled through the local criminal justice system. The vast majority of first time offenders are usually allowed to enter a diversionary program, referred to as Pre-Trial Intervention, which is coordinated by the local solicitor’s office. Student violators of drug laws are also referred to OSC.
 Policy regarding the possession, use, and sale of alcoholic beverages
 No person under the age of 21 may purchase, possess, or consume any alcoholic beverages, and no person shall sell or give alcoholic beverages to anyone under 21 years of age anywhere at the University of South Carolina – Columbia.
 Persons and their guests 21 years of age and older may possess and consume alcoholic beverages in individual campus residence hall rooms or apartments on campus, but not in the communal areas of a residence hall on campus such as lounges, balconies, decks, or bathrooms.
 Common source containers of alcohol (e.g., kegs) are not permitted on the University of South Carolina – Columbia premises any time.
 All events sponsored by any entity involving alcoholic beverages in University owned or controlled facilities must be registered through the Office of the Dean of Students. Upon submission of the Alcohol Event Registration Form, specific information and requirements will be requested.
 Any container of alcohol being transported must be sealed and covered while on University premises.
 No person, organization or corporation may sell any kind of alcoholic beverage on the campus of the University, unless there is an alcohol permit to do so.
 No alcohol may be served or consumed in any University building or open space except as provided in the Alcohol Event Registration Form. This includes personal consumption as well as consumption at a private party event.
 Guidelines for Students
 Students must adhere to the Student Code of Conduct and the General Guidelines for the University Community as well as all federal, state, and local laws and ordinances. In addition, students should be aware of the following that under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”), the University may disclose the result of a disciplinary proceeding to a parent or guardian so long as the student is under the age of 21 at the time of the incident and the proceeding has resulted in a violation of University drug or alcohol policies or any federal, state, or local law. The University may also notify a parent or guardian of a student under the age of 21 of any sanction that places the student on housing or conduct probation (official notice that any additional offense may affect the student’s ability to live on campus or attend the University), or that results in removal from University Housing or the institution (e.g., housing removal/relocation, suspension, or expulsion). The University may also notify a parent or guardian upon a second violation of the University alcohol policy. Finally, the University’s Student Care and Outreach Team will notify a parent or guardian of a student under the age of 21 where the consumption of alcohol has resulted in the hospitalization of the student. For more information or for Consent to Release Information waiver, refer to the Office of Student Conduct.
 Policy regarding the possession, use, and sale of illegal drugs
 The University of South Carolina – Columbia supports strict enforcement of laws concerning the possession, consumption, and distribution of illegal drugs and controlled substances as set forth in the South Carolina Code of Laws, Title 44, Chapter 53. Students, as citizens, are responsibleforknowing about and complying with South Carolina laws concerning illegal drugs and the use of other controlled substances.
 Students are responsible for abiding by the Student Code of Conduct and local, state, and federal laws whether on or off campus. Failure to do so can result in criminal, civil, and University proceedings and sanctions. Students and student organizations that are in violation of the law are also violating the Student Code of Conduct and can be held accountable under both separate systems.Violations of the University’s drug policy as well as other regulations contained in the Carolina Community will be referred to appropriate University offices.
 The risks associated with the misuse of alcohol, illegal drugs, prescription medications, and other substances are numerous and include physicalandmentalimpairment,emotionalandpsychologicaldeterioration,addiction,infectiousdisease,andadverseeffectsonpregnancy. There are obvious risks, such as suffering a hangover, driving under the influence or committing other crimes, and sustaining or causing personal injury. There are a number of less obvious risks associated with alcohol and other drug misuse that students and employees may not realize, including: poor academic and/or job performance, initiating nonconsensual sexual activity, and jeopardizing future career prospects. In addition, alcohol and other drug misuse puts the user at considerable health risk, which can include nausea, vomiting, cancer, liver damage, elevated blood pressure, psychotic episodes, hallucinations, and overdose leading to death. A chart on the uses and effects of controlled substances can be found https://bit.ly/2VkeJJb.
 Substance Abuse Prevention and Education
 The Substance Abuse Prevention and Education Office (SAPE) is located on the third floor of the Strom Thurmond Wellness and Fitness Center and is open Monday through Friday during regular business hours. SAPE provides resources about alcohol and other drugs including DVDs, flyers, brochures, journal and newspaper articles, and local and nationwide data from surveys. SAPE maintains relation- ships with and listings of alcohol and drug support groups and resources in the Columbia and Midlands area of South Carolina.
 Educational Programs
 Students Taking Initiative and Responsibility (STIR): The mission of STIR is to help students identify high-risk behavior, reflect on their decision making skills, and take action towards making safer choices and reducing potential negative consequences. The course design is a two-session individualized meeting with SAPE graduate students. Participants are typically sanctioned to the STIR program by their conduct administrators for an alcohol or drug violation, but students may also voluntarily take part to explore their choices about substance use.
 AlcoholEdu: AlcoholEdu is a required educational program and assessment that measures students’ attitudes and perceptions about substance use and abuse. The course is taken in two parts, both of which are completed online. Part I takes about two and a half hours to complete, and is done before the student arrives on campus. Part II takes approximately 15 minutes, and is taken 30-45 days after the first part is completed. All new and transfer undergraduate students must complete AlcoholEdu.
 Sexual Assault Prevention for Undergraduates: This program is a required educational and training module about sexual assault prevention. The course uses realistic scenarios and skill-building exercises. Similar in structure to AlcoholEdu, it is broken into two parts. Part I takes around an hour and a half to complete. After a 30-45 day waiting period, students must complete Part II, which takes about 15 minutes.