 CONFIDENTIAL REPORTING OF CRIME AND OTHER SERIOUS INCIDENTS
 Victims and witnesses can receive confidential services through the Counseling and Psychiatry Department (803) 777-5223, Student Health Services, and SAVIP (803) 777-8248 (24/7). SAVIP staff can explain the reporting process, the rights of victims and witnesses, and options. Confidentiality will be maintained when speaking to any of these offices, except under very rare circumstances
 Other University personnel, however, may have reporting and response obligations University staff, depending on their role, may be required to share information regarding sexual harassment or misconduct with administrative authorities for investigation and follow up . The University wishes to support students who have experienced assault, harassment, or abuse in pursuing justice to the extent possible .
 The University will protect the confidentiality of an alleged victim by not disclosing the alleged victim’s information to anyone outside the University to the maximum extent permitted by law The University must balance a victim’s request for confidentiality with its responsi- bility to provide a safe and non-discriminatory environment for the University community When the University cannot take disciplinary action against someone accused of discrimination or harassment because of a victim’s wish for confidentiality, the University will pursue other steps to limit the effects of the alleged sexual misconduct and attempt to prevent its recurrence.
 SAVIP can provide safe and confidential support, explain common reactions to crises, and discuss coping methods that may assist immediately following the assault and later. SAVIP advocates will not reveal the victim’s identity to anyone without the victim’s permission except under very limited exceptions (e.g. if an immediate threat to the victim or others is present, if the alleged is a repeat offender, or if the victim is a minor).
 Mandatory reporters are afforded the opportunity to submit a report through the Office of Civil Rights and Title IX Office of Equal Opportunity Program’s website. However, the reporter should know that, during the course of an investigation, his/her identity may be discovered. If that occurs, the reporter will receive the same confidentiality safeguards offered to those who make a formal report. Reports submitted through any of the entities listed above are included in the University’s Annual Security and Fire Safety Report.
 Anonymous tips regarding criminal activity can be made to the Midlands Crimestoppers by dialing 1-888-CRIME-SC or by visiting http://www.midlandscrimestoppers.com. Individuals may also use the RAVE Guardian app to send anonymous tips or to provide law enforcement with concerns regarding suspicious activity. DLES does not generally investigate anonymous allegations of criminal activity outside of CRIMESTOPPERS and the RAVE Guardian app. Anonymous tips without further corroboration are not included in the University’s Annual Security and Fire Safety Report.
 The University does not have procedures to encourage pastoral or professional counselors to inform persons they are counseling of how to report Clery crimes on a voluntary, confidential basis for inclusion in the University’s Annual Security and Fire Safety Report. The Universi- ty does not prohibit pastoral or professional counselors from doing so when those individuals deem such advice appropriate.
 The University’s Annual Security and Fire Safety Report does not include personal identifying information of victims or reporters. Further, South Carolina law prohibits the publication of the name of a sexual assault victim.