 Monitoring and Recording Criminal Activity Including Off-Campus Organizations
 Some official student organizations, including faith based organizations, own private, non-residential facilities off campus. If a local law enforcement agency is called to respond to one of those facilities, they may notify the DLES of the situation, although this would be done as a courtesy and not obligation. DLES works with neighboring jurisdictions in identifying criminal activity by students at noncampus locations. Reporting procedures are established between neighboring jurisdictions and DLES to allow for the documentation of criminal activity by University students in those jurisdictions with information provided to the University’s Office of Student Conduct and Academic Integrity.
 Access to Campus Facilities
 Residence Halls
 Most residence hall entrances are staffed with Housing personnel. These employees are charged with the responsibility of checking the identification of those entering the residences and have direct contact with the Division of Law Enforcement and Safety (DLES) by telephone. Some residence halls, such as DeSaussure, Thornwell, and Woodrow, are apartment-style and have no security guard or Housing staff at their entry. All residence halls are within a designated patrol sector and patrolled by DLES officers day and night. The Greek Village is also patrolled by campus police officers day and night, and some of the houses located there are equipped with access control systems. They are locked at night, and can only be accessed by authorized students and staff.
 Classrooms
 Classroom buildings and individual rooms are under the protection of the DLES.These buildings are within designated patrol sectors and are patrolled twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. Academic buildings with access control systems can only be entered by authorized persons after hours.
 Libraries and other Public Buildings
 To maintain a secure campus environment, DLES gives extra attention to University areas open to the public in the routine patrol plan. Staff located in these areas assist with monitoring the campus environment as well; Thomas Cooper Library uses Closed Circuit TV (CCTV) cameras, and staff check packages and bags as visitors exit the building. All public buildings on campus are staffed with University personnel who are instructed on the best method of contacting DLES. DLES patrols all public areas and buildings on campus, providing a twenty-four hour law enforcement presence.
 Athletic Stadiums, Coliseums, and Arenas
 CCTV and/or alarm devices monitor most of the areas in which athletic contests are held. Before, during, and after events, DLES officers and/or contract security personnel patrol and maintain a presence in the area to promote a safe environment and report any security issues. Suspicious activity observed by contract security personnel is reported to DLES by two-way radio or telephone. Security measures are customized for the activity to be held.
 Garages/Parking Lots
 Some garages and parking lots have CCTV cameras, and most have Emergency Call Boxes placed in conspicuous locations. People using the garages and parking lots are encouraged to report any suspicious activity to DLES. Officers regularly patrol the University’s garages and lots.
 General Campus
 In addition to the routine patrol plan of the Division of Law Enforcement and Safety, certain days of the week and weekends are chosen in which high visibility patrols are implemented.These patrols are designed to exhibit a concentrated law enforcement presence in areas of the campus frequented by students at night. Special campus events are also common sites of high visibility patrols. DLES officers and/or contract security, at the request of organizations sponsoring events, provide security at many campus activities.
 Security Considerations in the Maintenance of Campus Facilities
 Facilities and landscaping are maintained in a manner that minimizes hazardous or unsafe conditions. DLES regularly patrols the campus and reports unsafe physical conditions to Facility Services or Housing for correction. Housing residents or other members of the University Community also report equipment problems or potentially hazardous conditions to DLES, Housing, or Facility Services.