 The Division of Law Enforcement and Safety
 About the Division
 The University of South Carolina Division of Law Enforcement and Safety (DLES) is the primary law enforcement agency responsible for the safety of the University’s Columbia Campus. DLES is operated and sustained by professionals in law enforcement, compliance and professional standards, environmental health and safety, and risk management. DLES works diligently to protect the people and property of the University of South Carolina and to uphold their values – human life, integrity, excellence and accountability.
 The University’s Columbia Campus covers more than 400 acres downtown. If USC Columbia were its own city, it would be the 13th largest city in the state based on the size of its enrolled students and staff.
 DLES is home to over 100 employees, including over 70 sworn police officers. DLES is divided into three bureaus; Operations, Support Services, and Administration.
 The Operations Bureau, the largest and most visible bureau, is responsible for traditional policing functions. Patrol Officers provide a uniformed presence and respond to calls for service 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Specialized units such as the Bike Patrol team and Crime Suppression Unit are also a part of this bureau.
 The Support Services Bureau oversees the Communications,Technical Operations and Physical Security (TOPS), and Investigations Units. Communications Unit personnel take calls from 911 and the non-emergency line, dispatch police, monitor video and alarms. The TOPS Unit install and maintain over 300 security cameras located across all USC campuses. Criminal investigators are responsible for investigat- ing crimes.
 The Administration Bureau is responsible for the training of DLES personnel, maintaining vital records, and evidence control. This Bureau is also home to the Emergency Management Unit, which plans for and responds to natural and other disasters.
 Enforcement Authority and Training
 The police officers employed by DLES are appointed and commissioned as State Constables by the Governor of South Carolina, as pro- vided by South Carolina law. They are empowered to enforce the laws of South Carolina anywhere in the State, as well as arrest individuals anywhere in the State. DLES officers complete twelve weeks of law enforcement instruction through the South Carolina Criminal Justice Academy. They receive at least 40 hours of continuing education every year, which exceeds the state’s minimum requirements.
 Interagency Cooperation
 DLES works cooperatively with other law enforcement agencies in South Carolina to promote the safety and security of the Carolina Community. With a downtown location covering many city blocks, there is an increased likelihood that a crime occurring in the metro- politan area of Columbia may occur on campus. The University of South Carolina’s Columbia Campus shares jurisdiction with other law enforcement agencies, including the City of Columbia Police Department.
 DLES maintains working relationships with local and state prosecutors, the court system, coroners’offices, and other investigative entities to ensure the ongoing safety and integrity of the Carolina Community. There are specific events that may occur on campus, such as the death of a student, which would require DLES to notify the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division (SLED). DLES also participates in intelligence sharing associations with other area law enforcement agencies. Ongoing collaboration between agencies enables DLES to gather data, identify crime trends on and around campus, and provides a system for notifying the Office of Student Conduct and Academic Integrity when off-campus student crimes or policy violations occur.
 DLES and other law enforcement agencies enter into Memorandums of Understanding (MOU) for the purpose of best allocating resources for the protection of the communities the agencies serve. In particular, DLES enters into MOUs with the City of Columbia Police Department at times when the University leases significant portions of private housing facilities near the University so that the agencies may document which entity retains primary law enforcement jurisdiction over the leased property.